



My dear Sir
Boston July 1st. 1778



After various Reports of the Capture of the Boston by a British Cruizer, and of her being struck with Lightning at Sea, it was with peculiar Pleasure I lately receivd an Assurance Of your Safe Arrival in France. Not long after you saild, Mrs. Adams wrote me a Letter upon a Report of Dr. Franklins having been assassinated, full of the tenderest Anxiety, and the most amiable Sentiments, sollicitous for the Safety of her dear Partner whom she had given up for a long Interval, to the Service of our Country. I did evry Thing I could, in my Reply, to sooth her afflicted Mind, and most sincerely take Part in the Joy which a Letter, I am just informd, she has receivd from you, must afford her.1 I feel happy that my Country has two such Negotiators as you and your Collegue at the first Court in Europe, and not a little proud that I can call you both my Friends. May Heaven support you under your public Cares, and prosper all your Efforts for the Safety and Happiness of our dear Country. I congratulate you on the Prospect of a speedy and glorious End to our great Contest, that must give us a distinguishd Place among the Nations, and peculiar Honor to those whose Services have eminently contributed to it. The Monarch, at whose Court you reside, gave by his wise and generous Treaty, a new Turn to our Affairs. They were indeed very far from being desperate without it, but the Alliance with France gave a new Spring in evry Part, and rapidly brightend all our Prospects. Our Paper Credit is that which of all others still labors most. It has remaind rather at a Stand for some Time then been much advancd. I hope by forreign Loans, [249]or some Method or other, we shall soon be relievd in this important Point. I refer you for the State of our Affairs to the Paper, and Letter I have sent by this Conveyance to Dr. Franklin.2 The Vessel being on the Point of Sailing I must close. Adieu my dear Friend, and accept the warmest Tenders of Esteem and Affection from Yours

Saml. Cooper

