



My dear Sir

       May 20th. 1776
      



By the last Post I received yours of May 6th.1 and am not troubled at your Acceptance of the Resignation of G. W.2 He is, indeed, a cool prudent Man, and accepted the Post of Danger for his Country at a [198]critical Time, when others seemd to decline it. He is a through New England Man in his Principles and Inclinations, but not made for an high Command in the Field. I cannot wholly excuse any whose Stations requird them to be alert as possible in so important a Time as the Evacuation of Boston. W. had one of the 4 Regiments stationd at Marblehead and Beverly which could not be calld off. The small Pox, Torie Effects, and other necessary Occasions requird many Guards. General Washington left Orders for the Works of the British Troops to be demolishd at Charlestown and other PlacesCharlestown Point and Noddles Island to be immediately fortifydtho many wishd we had begun lower down the Harbor. The General Court occupied in many Affairs were too dilatory in this. The Town of Boston was unguidedthe most of the Selectmen out of TownIts Inhabitants of chief Spirit not returnd. Those that remaind during the Siege wore the Marks of Men that had been under the Yoke, and requird Time to recover Spirit and Vigor. I mention these Things as some Excuse. Had there been any one leading Person, to have immediately discernd, and stated to the Court what was necessary, they were ready to grant Supplies. The Pause was dangerous and dishonorable. I felt it, and wrote to my Friends. Our Colony, will however, I believe support its CharacterAliquando bonus dormitat Homerus.3
I have the Pleasure now to inform you that besides what is done at Charlestown Point, we have a good Fortress and Cannon mounted at Fort Hill: another almost compleated on Noddles Islandanother at Dorchester Point finely executed. These Works are allowd by the best Judges, to be superior to any Thing of the Kind done by the British Engineers here. The General Court have voted two Marching Regiments, and one of Artillery, which are filling up as fast as can be expected considering the busy Season of the Year, and how many Men we have already furnishd for the general Service. They have also made Provision for Row Gallies, Fire Ships and Rafts. Their Committee for fortifying has large Powers, Lincoln is Chairman. I have the same Idea of Col. Quincys Knowledg [of] the Harbour that you express, and of the best Method to secure it. I have pressd that he might be consulted. He has been; and Lincoln assurd me he had his Opinion in Writing which would be attended to. We want however, very greatly a Military Commander of Capacity and Spirit. Cannot you spare us Green, Sullivan, or one like them?
I congratulate you upon the Capture of one of the most Important Prizes taken this War4a Storeship with 1500 hundred Barrels of Powder, 1000 CarbinesCarriages, entrenching Tools &c. The Ship [199]was 270 Tons: and taken by our Countryman Muckford, in a Continental Cruizer of 4 Guns, 50 Tons, and 20 Men. The Ship had four guns and 17 Men. A bold and noble Action. Poor Muckford has not livd to enjoy his Prize. Going out last Evening thro Pulling Point Gut, and coming to Anchor there, in Company with a little Vessell of 30 Tons, and 3 Carriage Guns, they were attackd about 9 OClock by twenty Boats from the Men of War in Nantasket. The Boats were beat off by our brave men who killed and wounded a Number of the Enemy, but Muckford exerting himself heroically, fell; and was the only Person we lost. I am afraid the Post will set off before this can be given him, must therefore conclude. Yours most affectionately,

S.SSC5

