



Sir
Nantes. 10th. March. 1780



Circumstances I flatter my self will plead my Excuse for addressing to you this letter. Agreable to the advise of my friends and my own Inclinations, I Embarked abd of the Mercury Packett last Augt. with an Intention of persuing my mercantile proffession (till the war is happily terminated) in France; and of travelling in Europe, previous to this resolution in the years 77 and 78, I made a compleat tour of America Even to the borders of Florida; and Establishd Extensive mercantile connections in the several states. My alluring prospects Inducd me to determine to unite myself mutually with Jona. Williams Esqr. of this City in business, before my departure from America, previous to which I considered with attention the necessity of being fully recommended; but as I was perticularly recommended to you Sir by Mrs. Adams, Majr. Genl. James Warren and Lady, also Robt. T. Paine Esqr.1 I reposd my confidence in those Letters and consequently did not provide others for this quarter tho to the other ports, of Europe I am fully supported by Letters from the most substantial merchants in New-England; the day before our departure you arrivd in Boston, consequently I left the letters for you with Genl. Warren; Our stay then being so contracted that I came off, almost deprivd of any letters for Nantes; however I was fortunate in being presented with a line from Mrs. Mecomb2 which I had the honour to deliver to the Honbl. Benjn Franklin Esqr. at Passi. My motive in addressing this Epistle, is to crave the honour, of Introducing my self to you Sir and to congratulate your safe arrival in Europe. As I am at this period launched upon a stage of life, that I wish to Improve to the best advantage and as I wish to cultivate my manners before I commence my travells in Europe (or return to America). Pardon me Sir If I urge your goodness in supplying my deficiency of recommendations, by favouring me with a few Lines to your acquaintance in Nantes (agreeable to Genl. Warrens Letter which I flatter my self he communicated before your departure,) particular to Mr. Williams as I have commencd a connection with him, that will probably augment in proportion to his being assurd respecting my character, family, connections etc. in America; another to Mr. Swighaiuser probable will be productive of Extending the circle of my polite Edifying [33]acquaintance.3 Probable you are sufficiently acquainted with my fathers circumstances to announce his affluence. etc.besides his, be assurd Sir I have the patronage of the principal merchants in N. England.
My father resides in Plymh.and has depuis the war, been uniformly strenuous in support of Independence.
As my predominant ambition is to contribute to the good, and Improvement of my country I am persuaded your patriotic disposition will Even prompt you to contribute in refining and Improving those of the present generation whos first wish is to add to the Emolument of their youthfull, virtuous and bleeding country.

Your attention at this time, shall Ever be acknowledged with particular gratitude by Sir Your Most Obdt. & Very Hl. St.
Elkea. Watson Jr.4


If your Important concerns will permit, a condecension of an answer, please direct to me at Mr. Williams.

