



Dr Sir
Head Quarters. Cambridge 3d. Decr. 1775



Long before the Receipt of this You will have heard by Express from the General, of the important Prize we have made in the Capture of the Brig Nancy loaded with Ordnance Stores for the Army at Boston. Orders were given that she should be unloaded with all possible Expedition, and we have now the greatest Part of her Cargo safely housd in the Laboratory here.1 The Loss must be very great to the Enemy, but the Acquisition is immense to Us. Col. Barbeck assured me that it would have taken eighteen Months to have prepard a like Quantity of Ordnance Materials, could they have been furnishd with every Thing requisite to make them. There are many Things which Money could not have procurd Us. I heard Col. Mason say that, had all the Engineers of the Army been consulted they could not have made out a compleater Invoice of military Stores, than we are now in Possession of. We want Nothing now but a Ship Load of Powder, to raise such a Clatter in the Streets of Boston, as to force Georges Banditti to seek Protection in his Ships, or fly to his Ministers for Security.
We have had much Disturbance in The Camp here, by the Connecticut Troops insisting upon returning home at the Expiration of their Enlistment which was the 1st. Instant.2 Every Act of Persuasion was used to prevail with them to reinlist, but to no Purpose. Numbers of them refused staying only till the Militia could be called in to man the Lines. When Intreaty faild, force was used, and the greatest Part of them have at Length consented to stay Ten Days longer. Orders have been issud for 5000 Militia to come down immediately and join the Camp. The Massachusetts Soldiers shew as much Backwardness in inlisting as the others. They complain of a Poll Tax being laid on them; that the Province is in arrears to them; they want bounty money, and lunar Months instead of Calendar ones. In short they expect to be hird and that at a very high Price to defend their own Liberties, and chuse to be Slaves unless they can be bribed to be freemen. Quid facit Libertas, cum sola Pecunia regnat?3 The mecernary Disposition of our Soldiery, made a Gentleman observe, that had Lord North sent over Guineas instead of Cannon Balls, New England would have been conquerd in a Twelvemonth. This was an illnaturd Remark, but similar to others which are daily made by a certain Set of Gentlemen, who affect to think that neither Patriotism or Bravery is the principal Motive of Action in any Man born and educated to the Northward of New York.
[341]
At a General Court Martial held last Friday, Lt. Col. Enos was tryd, for leaving the Detachment under Col. Arnold (on the Canada Expedition) and returning home without Permission from his commanding Officer and after a full Hearing acquitted with Honour. It fully appeard that absolute Necessity was the Cause of his Retreat, and had he not returnd his whole Division must have perishd for Want of Provision. The News of his Return at first raisd a prodigious Ferment and excited much Indignation; the Instant he arrivd he was put under an Arrest, but has since been honorably discharged.
Bellidore was a Lt. General in the Emperors Service, and the first Engineer in Europe. The Work I mentioned is the compleatest System of Fortification and Gunnery extant. It was originally wrote in French, but there is an indifferent English Translation of it.4 The great Number of valuable Plans which are inserted in the Books make them very dear.
