

(No. 8)1


Dear Sir
Paris Jany. 7th. 1781



I seize with avidity upon the opportunity of sending You the enclosed Philadelphia Paper of the 25th. of October, and, in the words of Govr. Jefferson, your much respected Friend, of congratulating your Excellency on the small dawn of good Fortune, which at length appears in the South.2 Our Countreymen seem to be in motion, and at least are bravely attempting to bring about a happy change in the face of southern affairs. When they once take a turn, we shall see them followed up with a spirit that will bear down all opposition. I am pleased to find our friend Gates is still there. His head and his heart are good: but if Heaven favours his plans, he must take care to give us no more conventions.3 I did myself the honor of writing you on the 1st. instant; and shall hope for your favour by the first post after that may come to hand. Wishing to be in a situation where, I think, I can render some little service to our Country, I shoud be glad to remain here, till it becomes necessary for me to join you. I will not fail to forward you any intelligence I may receive, which it concerns us to know. In my last, I desired you to give me a secrete address. I have some things upon my mind I wish to communicate. I have my suspicions of Francisco Silas Deane, and if they are well founded, and my information is good, he has taken a step which may enable him to do us much injury, if the knowledge of our affairs, will afford him an opportunity. I have not yet returned his visit, and, what is more, I have thought it my duty not to do it. This draws the Line between us.
I am sorry to acquaint you that we have not as yet, any news of Comte DEstainghis late arrival at Brest, even if his ships shoud not have sustained any considerable damage, will much retard the operations of the next Campaign.4
I beg you to present my regards to Mr. Searle, Mr. Thaxter, and the Children. I have not had leisure to write the two former, having been engaged in the business which cheifly brought me here.
I am, dear Sir, with much respect, your much obliged Friend and obedient humble Servant

FRA DANA

