



Honourd Sir
Amsterdam 3 April 1781



May it please Yor Excellency; to receive with the assrance of or most respectfll regard, the compliments of Mr. Ch. H Themmen of Groninqe, who charged s there with in a Letter; and promises to procre s by his frend a packet for Yor Excellency, which Mr. Francis Dana from Paris charged s to forward;1 whe shall comply there with the moment we receive it; it hath been left as Mr. Themmen writes at Valenciennes, by a mistake, from whence he hath Claimed it, and refers to Mr. Hazlehrst, who should in Short be here, for frther information.
We begg leave to remember to Yor Excellency the 7 Bills we had the honor to inclose last week,2 and though we have not received any Accont abot them, we can not persuade or Selfs they can have miscarried.
As to the Loan, we hope Yor Excellency wont take it Amiss that we could not conclude pon anything as yett; we observed already, that withot the Captre of St. Estacia we should have placed the whole on some terms of different payments, we should even have sacrificed or Comission, we wish some happy event may bring s soon so farr again for or undertakers wont come to Any proposalls at present; We found ot one however, who offerd to assist s, and to dispose from time to time of as many obligations as he Could, with an allowance of 2 p Ct. butt he insisted pon a Credit of a month for what he should take, even with the bonds in his hands, if it would remain a trifling matter, as it should be, in the beginning, we should not mention a word abot it for would trst it to him, btt it would directly go higher then or Comission would Amont to, this offer then we are obliged again to lay before yor Excellency for her Contemplation; we have a great prospect with this man of going farr if we could agree to such terms as would make it sufficiently his intrest, for he himself should take the half p Ct. brokerage and allow the 2 p Ct. to others he employd, for which reason he refses to pay directly withot Some other Complication, and be it even small there is always risk in giving credit. This we thought it our duty to acquaint Yor Excellency with; she may depend upon that or own glory will not permitt s to leave any thing unattempted to obey her orders in the most effectall manner as we have the honor to be most devot-[245]edly Honorable Sir Yor Excellencys most Obedient and most humble Servants

John de Neufville & Son

