



Dear Sir

[31 January 1781]
1




I write you at present principally to communicate the following intellegence from Martinique. It is just given to me by our good Friends the two Abbs,2 who tell me it may be depended on, as they had it from Mr. Neckars Office.


22d. Decr. La Martinique
La derniere Convoi parti du Ferrol, est arriv ici le 14. Xbre. il manque peu de batimentsLe 4 Vaisseaux venue de St. Doming. sous les ordres de Monsr. Le Chevr. DAlbert St. Hippolite sont arrive a St. Pierre.
LAmiral Rodney a attaqu la nuit du 16 en 17 St. Vincent. Il avait  terre 4000 hommes compris les Troupes de Marine. Le debarquement sest fait dans la matine du 16. Les Anglais ont et rpouss avc perte et obligs de se rembarquer. M. de Blanch le Lande Lt. Colonel du Regiment de Viennois3 a defendu cette Isle contr lamiral Rodney et le general Vaughan. Il avait pris depuis 2 jours le comman-[92]dement de cette Isle. Les Carribes se sont comport avc beaucoup de Valeur.
Cette novelle a et aporte par la Frigate la Carq [Crs?] commande par le Baron de <Bouvebelles> Bonbelles capitaine de Vaisseaux arriv  Rochfort le 27. Janv. 1781.4


I have desired Mr. Grand to transfer from my Account to your Credit 2658.16.10 Livrs. the amount of the Note I gave you just before I left Holland; and to advise you of it, which when he shall do, you will please to cancel my Note.5 I have received Mr. Thaxters two Letters.6 Your bills are lodged as you desired with Mr. Grand. Please to tell Mr. Thaxter I am ready to answer his drafts for the sums he mentions, as soon as he will draw upon me for them, or any others he may have occasion for. I have heard nothing about either of them here.
Mr. Searle is now with me, and desired to be particularly remembered to you, and to assure you he is daily more and more convinced of the baneful effects of Franciscos Silas Deanes conversation. He is gone with his clerk for Holland, I believe by the way of Ostend.7 I beg you to present my regards not only to all our Countrymen with you, who merit them, but to all our good Friends of Holland.
I am, Dear Sir, with the most sincere respect & attachment Your most obedient humble Servant and much obliged Friend

FRA DANA

