



Plimouth October 11 1773



To Mr. Adams1

Though short! Far short my pen of the sublime,
Fate urges on and bids me write in Rhyme,
And hope my Friend the Effort will Excuse,
Nor Blame the Heart: but Chide the Niggard Muse.
Is it A Wild Enthusiastick Flame,
That swells the Bosom panting after Fame,
Dilates the Mind, while Evry sails unfurld,
To Catch the plaudit of a Gazing World.
Is there no permanent, no steady pole,
To point us on, and Guide the Wandring soul,
Does prejudice, and passion, Rule Mankind.
Are there no springs that actuate the Mind,
Whose deep Maeanders, have some Nobler source,
Than Vain self Love; to Guide their Winding Course.
[355]
That Genrous ardor stiled Benevolence,
Is it an art to Gratify the sense,
Or Give imagination further scope,
That aeiry queen, who Guides the Helm of hope,
Holds A False Mirrour to the Dazzeld sight,
A Dim perspective, A Delusive light,
That swells the Bubbles of Lifes shortned span,
While Wisdom smiles at the Deluded Man,
Wrapd in Extaticks, by imagined Fame,
When the next Moment, Will Blot out his Name.
Cant the Wise precepts, of A platos school,
(or shall I Name a still more perfect Rule,)
Rouze up the soul, to that Exalted Height,
To Walk by Reason, And Reject the Cheat,
Or are the Fetters that Enslave the Mind
Of that Firm Base, that Adamantine kind,
So Firmly Lockd, and so securely Reved,
The more we search, the More are we Deceived,
Are truth, and Friendship, no where to be Found,
And patriot Virtue, Nothing but A sound.
Then May A Cesar Equal Honours Claim,
With Noble Brutus, Celebrated Name,
For the poor tribute, of a short applause,
one stabs A tyrant trampling on the Laws,
While the proud Despot, Marks his Baneful Way
With Virtues tears and triumphs ore his prey,
Self, the sole point in which theyr both agreed,
By this Romes shackled, or by this shes Freed,
Self Love, that stimulous to Noblest aim,
Bids Nero Light the Capital in Flame,
Or Bids H sell his Native Land
And his Vile Brother Lend his perjured Hand,2
While Fredom weeps, and Heavn Delays to shed,
Its awful Vengeance on the Guilty Head.
If such is Life, And Fancy throw the Bowl,
If appetite and Caprice Rule the Whole,
If Virtuous Friendship, has no solid Base,
But False Deception, holds the sacred place,
Then from thy Memry, Race out Evry Line,
Nor Recolect one sentiment of mine,
[356]
But Dark oblivions sable Veil Draw ore,
And Ill Forbear to interupt the more.
For if Vice Boasts, her origen the same,
With social joy and patriotic Flame,
Then I must Wish to bid the World Farewell,
Turn Anchoret, and Choose some Lonely Cell,
Beneath some peaceful Hermitage Reclined,
To Weep the Misery, of all Mankind,
Till Days and years! till time shall Cease to roll,
And Truth Eternal strikes the Wondring Soul.

