



Honourable Sir
Amsterdam the 28th. March 1781



We begg leave to thank yor Excellency for her most obliging favor of Yesterday, with the inclosed bills Accepted, may we begg the same favor for 7 Others since received and here annexed. We shall not troble Yor Excellency with any new proposalls respecting the Loan, observing she wishes not to exceed the terms already proposed; we had the honor to acquaint yor Excellency that we should have gone through with it if St. Estacia had not been taken, so it was, for or Leonard1 had pretty near the engagement ready provided we would sacrifice or Comission, which Certainly we would have done; we could not yett Since resme the negotiation, btt or good will in every Object respecting to America and to Yor Excellency will always excse or endeavors if they dont Scceed we are not however at a loss for some good expectations, btt Republicae nostrae ad exemplm, totus componits orbis,2 in slow motion. We had the honor to observe before to Yor Excellency that in case a circlation could be admitted we made no difficlty to pay the bills then drawn, as we are now comfirmd in the ideas we then had that or people wants to consider, no generosity guides narrow minds; we wont give p the hopes however of Succeding; butt would be less anxios if we had the ressorces in or Selfs which the Cort of France hath, and could dispose of so many millions; and on this consideration, we may expect as individals that or will at least will be taken for deeds; we can not expect to interfere with the Comission of those who Advance the money as Mr. Grand is the Banker in Paris it is natrall his hose here should have that preference, as they have always done most of the bssiness for the French Cort, and or wishes were that American Conections might be centred in or Republicq withot Any intermediation, and this we hope still to promote.
If this should have a bad effect on the American loan in this Republicq we could only be sorrow for it and it may; the French at [238]least some among them will like it; btt after the publicq Comotions here will be settled, we may be steadier in or attatchments, they prove in generall as light as we are heavy; we thank Yor Excellency for the preference given to s, and will deserve the same for never the Cort of France can blame Yor Excellency for the terms, we have convincing proves that doctr. Franklin offerd larger then we ever desired from Yor Excellency.
Or private Negotiations are going on, when they are open and closd we are, when not we can keep or guard as well as others. May we give Yor Excellency joy on a generall good prospect, for the Case of Liberty in which we flatter or Selfs to have the Same though perhaps through different Channels, and could it not be possible that or Ideas came from the Same Source.
The Letters enclosed3 we forward according to or duty And have the honor to be with all respectfll regard Honourd sir Yor Excellencys most devoted obedient hmble Servants

John de Neufville & Son


The 7 bills mentiond is 1 For Mr. Hodshon 6 For s.

