



Dear Sir
New York 15th. Augt. [1776]



Your Favors of the 3d. and 11th. Instant I received this Day for which I am much obliged. I know not whither the Promotion of Generals will give perfect Content, the Uneasiness amongst the Brigadiers who are promoted I beleive will Satisfy them,1 the Promotion of Colonels I dont hear objected to, except that <None> One from Rhode Island are not promoted;2 on my Part I ought to be contented when you have done much more than my most sanguine Expectations gave Reason to hope, at this Time. The Two Regiments of Tyler and Durkee are Satisfied. To the Majority of these Regiments I beg Leave again to recommend to you Captain James Chapman of Tylers Regiment, the first Captain, an officer faithful and Approved in a Variety of Campaigns the last and present War, of a liberal capacious Mind,[463] well acquainted with Men and in every Respect an able good Officer universally esteemed as such, he has already a temporary Appointment by the General which is all he can do. Capt. Dier of Col. Durkees Regiment is Son to Col. Dier, and a Gentleman of a liberal extensive Education and has every Character of a Soldier, he is the Second Captain and without Exception the best Man in the Regiment for a Majority. The first Captain is an honest Man, (and that is a good Character), but by no Means fit to command. I know I may write in Confidence to you, and therefore will endeavor to give the Characters of your Officers as I am able from my Acquaintance, tho I think the Task hard and not the most agreable.



Colonels
3




Whitcomb
has no Trace of an Officer, his Men under no Government


Reed
A good Officer not of the most extensive Knowledge but far from being low or despicable


Prescot
A Good Soldier to fight no Sense after Eight oClock A M


Little
A Midling Officer and of tolerable Genius, not great


Serjeant
has a pretty good Character but I have no Acquaintance


Glover
is said to be a good Officer but am not acquainted


Hutchinson
An easy good Man not of great Genius


Baley
is Nothing


Baldwin
a Personable Man but not of the first Character


Learned
Was a good Officer, is old, Superanuated and Resigned


Greaton
An excellent Disciplinarian his Courage has been questioned, but I dont know with what Justice


Bond
I dont know him


Patterson
A Good Officer of a liberal Education, ingenious and Sensible






Lt. Colonels
4




Shephard
an excellent Officer none before him, of good Understanding and good common Learning


Jacobs
is less than Nothing


Wesson
An Able Officer


Clap
Pretty good


Reed
Pretty good


Moulton
Am not acquainted


[464]


Henshaw
Am not acquainted


Johonnot
Very good a fine Soldier and an extensive Acquaintance



Majors
5




Sprout
a good, able, Officer


Brooks
an Officer, Soldier, Gentleman and Scholar of the first Character


Smith
a midling Officer


Haydon
a good Officer faithful and prudent not of the most Learning or great Knowledge of the World


Lt. Col. Nixon I had forgot he is a discreet good Officer not of the greatest Mind.6
Col. Ward is a diligent faithful Man and a good Soldier.
These are all the Field Officers from your State which I at present recollect with whom I have any Acquaintance; amongst them all tis my Opinion Lt. Col. Shephard would make as good an Officer as any at the Head of a Regiment and that Major Brooks would Honor any Command he Should be appointed to, he is now a Major of Col. Wibbs Regiment7 and as fit to command a Regiment as any Man in the Lines. Thus you have my Opinion without disguise and I am sure you will make no improper Use of it. Lt. Col. Shephard is a Man of great Spirit he highly resents Col. Learneds being sent for to command the Regiment after his Resignation; I think we shall loose an able good Officer if he leaves the Service and one who was always Col. Learneds equal, at least, before he lost his Health and his Powers of Mind were impaired. I wish him to have the Regiment. Am sure no Man better deserves it. Several Young Gentlemen in the Service I think justly Merit further Notice from their good Conduct and liberal Education and largeness of Mind; Capt. Warham Park8 of West Field is not the most inconsiderable of the Number. Tudor, Osgood, and Ward I am well acquainted with and think they will honor their Country in any Military Character. Orne I dont know, Warren I imagine will do Justice to your Expectations; but we much differ in our Ideas of a military Character or I am totally deceived in Lincoln who may serve his Country well in a civil Department, but I imagine has very little of the Soldier.
The Objection to a grant of Lands to the Soldiery can have very little Weight when it must be purchased. Let it be Scituated in one State or another, And this Purchase at the joint Expence of the United States will make the Burthen equal on the Whole and perhaps a Purchase of the Natives erected into a new Government might [465]best Answer the Purposes and serve as a Barier to the other States.
The great the important Crisis is now at Hand when we must decide the Question whither we will be freemen or Slaves, I wish we may prove to our Enemies that Life without our Liberty we think not worth our Enjoyment; by the Preparations of our Enemy we expect an Attack the first Wind and Tide. I am Sir with Esteem & Regard yr. most obedt. hl Servt.9

Saml H. Parsons

