



Hond Sir
London. 5th. July 1784



In leaving the Hague, I fully intended returning the same way and acknowledging personally my gratitude for the polite reception I mett at Amsterdam in consequence of your Excellencys letters of introduction.1 I was hurried back from Holland in consequence of my affairs haveing advancd to a close more rapidly than I had reason to expect.
I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that I am now totally, & honourably exonorated from my English debts, and preparing for America, expecting to sail for R. Island the 1st. Augt. I shall always be happy in every stage of life, to pay the tribute of respect which I owe your Excellency in common with every American; Independant of the personal attention I have in frequent instances experiencd during my residence in Europe.
[275]
Although I have freed myself from every claim in this country by a firm perserverance; yet a load hangs heavily upon my shoulders in France. My partner has Indeed come to a composition with his creditors, and will meet me in N. York, but as, in the progress of accomplishing this composition, I shall probably stand in need of the aid of the french Minister in America, and perhaps shall have occasion to make application to the Gouvenor of New York & Pensilvania; I shall therefore esteem it an additional obligation If your time will allow a letter of recommendation to them, stating my connections in New Englandmy establishment in France &c.2
Most respectfully wishing Your Excellency may injoy the happiness of soon seeing Mrs. & Miss Adams, and that you may continue to possess an uninterupted health, permit me to subscribe myself Very sincerely Your devoted / & greatly Obligd Hl. St.

El. Watson Jr.


Please to direct to me under cover to Messrs. Blanchard & Lewis merchts. London.
Mr. Watson presents his respectfull compliments to Mons. Dumas thanks him cordially for his intoduction to Mons. Luzac and begs to be favourd with a general sketch of the present system of Gouvernment in Holland for the regulation of his Journal.3

