



Dear Sir
Paris Augt: 19th. 1780



I did not expect yesterday when Mr. Thaxter wrote you, that I shoud have been able to have done myself that honor, by this oppor-[80]tunity, as I was much engaged in a particular business. I desired him to send you a transcript of part of a letter in the Gazette de France, said to be written by our worthy friend the late President Laurens; which he tells me he has done. I shall add, least the Gazette shoud not come to your hands, the account there given from the Captain of the Pacquebot.1
Le Capitaine du Peggy, homme digne de foi, et qui sest trouv  Charlestown pendant la plus grande partie du sige de la place, dit de plus que les Anglois ne parviennent  passer la barre, qu la faveur dun vent de S O violent, et quils y perdirent un de leurs plus riches transports, qui toit un ancien vaisseau de la compagnie des Indes. Il ajoute quaprs trois mois de sige, et dun feu toutjours soutenu, les Amricains ne pensrent  capituler quaprs que la troisime ligne de circonvallation forme, eut amen lEnnemi  la porte du fusil, et lorsque perdant chaque jour un nombre de citoyens, par les suites funestes dune petite vrole pedmique, et nayant plus pour se soutenir qun peu de riz, ils ne puvent mme conserver la moindre sprance daucun secours. Cest dans cette situation que le Gouverneur Rutledge, et le Conseil, se replirent dans lintrieur de la Province, o ils firent tous les efforts pour reunir quelques troupes. Au dpart du Capitaine Bryan, un dtachement de 4,000 Royalistes, commands par le General Martin,2 se partoit du ct de la Caroline Septentrionale; mais on sait de ce Capitaine que les Americains, loin dtre dcourags par la perte de Charlestown, se disposoient avec la plus grande activit, a mettre obstacle  tous progrs ultrieurs de lEnnemi, et  se venger de la perte quils venoient de faire.
On the 7th. instant I received, via Amsterdam, a letter from Mr: Hastings of the Post-Office Boston, dated 10th. May: nothing new of course. He says he has sent me a form of our Constitution, but it has not reached me. I learn from several quarters that it is generally approved by the People, and that they will probably ratify it. This makes me more desirous to obtain this Copy. Pray enquire at Amsterdam of every American you meet, whether he had the care of this same letter, and the plan of the Constitutionthe Newspapers sent also with it, I have received.
Mr: Gardoqui has drawn a bill upon you for about 900 Liv: in favour of Mr: Grand, which I accepted for you.3
Mr. Dean arrived at Passy about 3 or 4 days since. He has not called here. It is doubtful with me whether he will at allat least till after your return. If you shoud see Como: Gillon, please to present my thanks to him for his very obliging letter, and also the letters of [81]Introduction which he was so good as to procure for me. If I ever take that route, I shall make use of them.
I am anxious to hear from you, and particularly whether you have received my letter, enclosing a copy of one from the Comte de Vergennes to you.4 It was sent, together with others, by Mr: Appleton who coud not have reached Brussels before you left it. I hope master John, and mon fils are well. Please to give my love to them, and believe me to be with much respect and affection Your most obedt: humble Servt.,

Fra Dana


P.S. Since writing the above Mr: Dean has made me a visit.

