


Dear Sir,
St: Quentin. 15th. Octor: 1783.


I am honored by the receipt of your favor of the 11th. instant, and should not trouble again, (for I know you are not fond of receiving useless letters) but to assure you I participate the satisfaction you say you enjoy from some late Circumstances.
Permit me therefore first to congratulate you on the recovery of your health, & of the prospect you have of its being preserved to you in a better state than before I am very glad you have undertaken a journey to London, as both the journey & variety I am persuaded will be of particular service to you. Next to the restoration of your health, I rejoice in the honours you say Congress have conferred upon you No party in that Body should, nor, had they been properly instructed, would they ever have witheld them. To speak to you of Causes would indeed be a presumption
So Mrs: & Miss Adams will after all be favored with a sight of this old world It will be a gratification to them I knowbut six months, Sir, will give them a relish for the Blue Hills again. Neither of the Ladies, I am persuaded will like the whirl & bustle of Europe a longer time For what port, Sir, do you advise them to embark? I ask, to know if it may be in my power to render them any assistance on their arrival May I ask too, if the Treaty of Commerce will be negotiated in London or Paris.
St: Quentin I have made my abode for a while. My design is to get the french language. & here is a good Society therefore The tour I proposed to Italy has proved but a Castle in the air, in effectthe fancy of a Youngsters Brain My Papa recalls me in the course of next year. Peace being at last restored he wishes to partake the blessings of it with his Children. He hopes the next year my Sister [311]will be able to return with me. A parents feelings none but a Parent knowsand, as my duty, I obey1
You say, Sir, you cannot advise me to regulate my movements by any Consideration of yours If by this you mean that the idea of interrupting me should prevent your making use of me, you disappoint my wishes My services are at your Command& I have only to say I shall think myself honored in the employ at the same time, Sir, as you give me leave to address you as a friend, do not think I wish to put myself too forward: On the contrary the more plainness used with me, the more satisfaction on my partbeing flattered with your Confidence
Permit me to ask, Sir, if Mr: Thaxter said anything to you about money borrowed of Mr: Laurens, while in London He was kind enough to let us have some, as we found a difficulty in exchanging our Louis dors there. Mr: Laurens was to draw on us, upon our return to Parisbut, as I did not propose to go there immediately, I paid Mr: Thaxter my proportion of the sum borrowed, that he might answer the draft more conveniently As he did not write me on this subject before he left Paris, you will excuse my mentioning it to you I do it, not to give you trouble about it, as I have already written to Mr: Thaxter that I would accept Mr: Laurens draftbut to satisfy myself if the matter has been settled, being myself a party concerned2
I am obliged by Master Johns letter of the 23d. ulto: but yours of the 11th. inst: renders an answer thereto unnecessary. With best Compts: to him, & assurances of perfect respect & Esteem, to yourself, I have the honor to be, Sir, / Yr: obligd humle: Servt:
Chas: Storer.

P S. You will probably wish to see Mr: Fitch in London. His address is No: 79. Germyn Strt:3

