



Sir
Brussels Septr 12th. 1782



I have the Honour of receiving your Excellencys Letter of the 7th Instant, the Shrewed Man mentioned therein is now in this Town. He talks I am told of residing here.1
I have a Letter from my Freind at Paris.2 He seems to be much satisfied with Mr J Firmness, who has declared He will treat with no Powers where Our Independance becomes a Question and is disputed. He has no great Confidence in political Connections, He Strives to Act Independantly, as He did in the Above Instance, when [460]V was informed thereof, He was alarmed. However J continues to make F draw with Him.
The Shelburne Plan of settling little Matters before the important one is determined is I think well marked by one who as an Author and as a Man is esteemed by Your Excellency.
Il y a un certain Ordre, qui rend les Ngociations aises, Si on ne le suit pas, On avance lentement, et enfin quelque Difficult improuve rend inutiles les Articles, quon avoit deja dresss.
On demande, par example.
Sil faut Commencer par la discussion des Points les plus importans dune Affaire pour descendre ensuite dans le dtail des Objets moins interessans; ou sil faut Commencer par ces dtails pour monter insensiblement aux Articles les plus Essentiels; les personnes, qui auront beaucoup de Temps  perdre, ou qui aiment  netre jamais saves de rien peuvent prendre la derniere maniere.
des Principes des Negociations par l Abb Mabbly p 290.3
If Ld Shelburne thinks the Acknowledgement of the American Independance a thing of Course His Conduct may not be so Absurd but when at the same time, He Keeps it in reserve, because of its Importance to his Adversaries, they and not Him are to blame for Suffering it.
Oswald is at Paris, and is thought not to be a great Politician, having Already descovered the Utmost Extent of his Powers.
I have sent the Commissions to Paris; I have no Slips, since those, which your Excellency has received.
I have been told that Mr F has had a retention of Urine.

I have the Honour of being with the greatest Respect Sir your Excellencys Most Obedient Humble Servan
Edm: Jenings

