



Most Honourable Sir
Amsterdam 14 March 1781



May we begg leave to offer to Yor Excellency annexed to this present fifty bonds or obligations with the thereto belonging Coupons to which nothing is wanted butt to be signd by Yor Excellency; they are numberd from Nmber 21 to 30, and from Number 131 to 170.
It will make s easy if we may be acquainted they are in Yor Excellencys possession, and if we may know there are more wanted [201]we shall forward them directly. We as yett want btt a very few, which we should be glad to receive the sooner the better, and the whole of what we did orselfs the honor to convey to Yor Excellency with the Compleat coupons to two hundred as soon as convenient for we may have every day some demand for them though as we mst judge from Circmstances Amsterdam wont be at present the greatest markett.
We had the honor to answer Yor Excellencys last favor1 she gave me sufficiently to think, btt was not clear enough to interprete a Letter written from the Hage and mentioning that Yor Excellency had been there and presented no memoriall, reflecting on what had passed I did not interprete this as it ware, that the memoriall had not been comunicated to the States; and from the dependence I made on the Confidence Yor Excellency honourd me with I should not more have troubled my head about it; if not another intelligence had come to me through the Same Channell today; that the Memoriall had been presented by Mr. Dmas to Mr. Lohman president of the States for this week, and so certainly comunicated to the Prince of Orange, btt not so certain wether to the States; the Contents we were also acquainted with and are sorry only that she rnns the risq not to be Comunicated to their H. M. which intirely depends from the President, we wishd we were misinformed in this Circmstance, btt we know something of the measres taken in this Country; for which reason we are in hopes, as we heard only in generall that the Memoriall had been Comunicated to the Ministers (the Letter was not Circmstanciall on this matter,) that it was to the Cort of France and Rssia, and that those Corts will be directly Acquainted therewith. What becomes of or selfs we do not Care, or cheif anxiety is for the Republicq and the other tre friends for America in her; this is or only reason for extending on this matter.2 I will have some information next week from other Provinces; and as for the present I begg only leave to add that neither any person belonging to the Regency of this City nor my Son had given me any intelligence of what passed at the Hage where I have always found the Report of the President to be of great influence; btt this I dobt not Yor Excellency mst be acquainted with.
We join to this again a pack of letters received for Yor Excellency,3 begging leave to assre her that we have the honor to be with the most Respectfll Regard Honourable Sir Yor Excellencys most devoted and most obed. huml. serts.

John de Neufville & Son

