



Sir
From Vienna, in Austria, Septr. 25th. 1782



Just returned from a Tour through Hungaria, I have the Satisfaction of recieving your very Kind Favor of Augt. the 18th. inclosed in Mr. Bossets Letter, the Resident of two german Courts at the Hague,1 whose ill-grounded Scruples have been the Cause of the long Detention of m preceding application to Your Excellency, of april 11th. from Mnich.2 I am happy to hear from your own honored Self, the final Reception of m Letter, along with the Speedy Conveance of its Contents to Mr. H. Laurens, at Nantes, for which [493]please to accept m warmest Thanks. Not having, as yet, had the Pleasure of hearing from that worthy Patriote, I this Day write to him again, under Cover of the Widow Babut & Des bouchres, at Nantes, to inform him of the present Place of my abode, and of m Direction, under Cover A Monsr. le Baron de Fichtel, Agent du St. Empire Romain,  Vienne.
Alltho my Law-Suite against a great Knave of a Debtor, now in this Capital be likely decided next Week, I shall not stirr from hence, before I am honored with Yr. Excs. or Mr. Laurenss Commands, that I ma direct my steps accordingly, towards the latter End of next Month.
Previous to my Return to Switzerland, m native Country, it might perhaps not be improper to visit Venice, to Sound the Dispositions of its Leaders, concerning the american independent and united States, and to la a proper Foundation for a political, as well as a mercantile Connection with that respectable Free-State. The whole with the utmost Prudence and Secrecy, when Authorised, and Supported thereunto by Congress.
An immediate, direct, and free Intercourse with that maritime Commonwealth would pave the Wa to other Connections with Genoa, with Lucca, with Florence and Leghorne, with Naples and Sicily, with Turky and the Levant, with Trieste and Fiume, and give great Weight to any Subsequent Ngociation with the Cantons of Switzerland; if it was but for their pecuniar present Assistence. These, Yr. Exccy. Knows, are objects of no small Moment, which I have given due Attention to; and in which, I may flatter my self, from my local Knowledge of those several states, their Language, Policies, Laws, and Circumstances, to render our great Cause of publick Liberty, no small Services, when approved of, and encouraged thereto by Superior Comand.
Happy, if by the Exertion of my poor abilities, with indefatigable Zeal, Fidelit and Attachment, I can further entitle my self to Yr. Excys. Kind Esteem and Protection.

Rodh. Valltravers

