



Dr. Sir
London 10. Octor. 1780



Since my letter of the 6th there has been no material incident relative to Mr. H. Ls Commitment; nor is the rigour of his confinement abated. No person whatever can speak to Him but in hearing [261]and sight of the two attending Messengers. It is said the Secy. of States order will produce admittance to his room, but nothing else. Some of his torey relations, and a Mr. Manning a Merchant of the City and a Correspondant of Mr. Ls, have made attempts to speak to him but did not succeed.1 He is wise enough to be cautious who he Speaks to. It is generally thought this rigour will be taken off in a few days, and that His freinds, who are now backward for fear that any stir may be disadvantageous to Him, will have admittance. Almost every person here is crying out shame upon this sort of treatment of Mr. Ls.2 These people seem determind to act always in extreem and never to take the middle road. Nothing veryfys it so strongly as the present exultations for a defeat given to Genl. Gatess Army by Lord Cornwallis on the 16th Augt. An officer arrivd with the account yesterday and put the whole City in a ferment of joy. I inclose you the printed Gazette account.3 Last week, and indeed until yesterday every torey face wore an uncommon gloom and the cry was We are all undoneWe have lost Americaour Army will be Burgoindour fleets beaten &c. and now it is directly the reverse The defeat of Gates gives us No. and So. Carolina certainVirginia will come inWashington will be able to do nothing at N YorkThe french fleet will be blockd upWe shall conquer Ama. yet &c. &c. This sort of nonsence makes me sick. It has been pretty confidantly talkd of lately that the Cabinet had determind to prosecute the War in America with vigour, and that 10 Ships of the line and 10,000 troops were to be sent out immediately. There seems to be as thick heads within as without the Cabinet. There is an appearance of 4 Ships of the line and some troops being intended for America immediatelymost likely for the Southward; But this may be a politic measure in the ministers to give out even if they are determind to get rid of the American War.
The people generally are in fears about Jamaica and for the other Islands. No news from thence lately.
I am with great respect & Esteem your obligd & Obt Ser

WS.C

