



Sir
Leyde 26. Nov. 1781



If an man rejoice in the prosperity of the united States i wil hope that me shal not be denied a place amongst them, and I think it m dut to congratulate your Excellenc with the complete victor of your arms in the chesapeak-ba and the Burgoynishing of that mighty Lord with his many thousand Slaves. Now wil the proud of the British nation be humiliatednow shal a venal and corrupt menisters learnthat the Servants of despotism must be vanquisheid by the Soldiers of libert. I had Sent my warm thanks to the almighty being for this happ eventand pra himthat he wil defend and protect your Excellencies health and the cause of your countras the cause of virtue and humanitythan will the posterity bless with me the glorious names of those heros who delivered their countrymen from the arbitrar power of Tyoan.
I wish Sincerily that my countrmen wil awake at last out of their letharg, oppose the measures of a profligate court with vigour, and rather die gallantl in the battle, than to bow their knee for a man. I fear that the Baron van der Capellen, de Marsch Shal be made the victim of his glorious opposition, as wel as his relation the Baron vd capellen, de Pol and perhaps Shal the publication of the collection of American Papers, with a preface, containing a Paralel between America and the united Provinces, with Several Strictures, in favour of the first, against the last, render m ennemies an occasion to prosecute me at new.1 But America wil be my asylum If  am contraint to go out a countr, with wil be abandoned at length of time b Liberty self, if the United States wil receive in their bosomamongst their citisens, one of the Netherlands one, who is born[90]but not educated, who lived, although he detested it, amongst the admires of an Despotic aristocraty. Perhaps wil Mr. Cerisier translate m preface in Frenchand than shal I have Satisfaction enoughif it ma be favoured with your Excellencs adprobation. Was I able to Expres me more distinctly in the French language than in the English, I should chuse to translate itselfbut I know, it was above my forces. I hope your Excellency wil transmit one copy to Dr. Cooper.2
One of my Friends in England writ me the following lines. I very much wish to See in French your comparative view of the States of North-America and the United Provincesand that you ma have done me the Singular honour of putting in to the hands of his Excellenc John Adams m american Sermon. (It was the Same what I had traduced in dutchthe american war lamented.)3
I know the country (he pursues) where the people Seems insensible to what-ever ought to affect and alarm themdead for their former feelings and jealousthe dupes of influence, luxur and dissipationthough now in a perilous and distressed Situation. In more distant regions, I hope with you, Zealous advocates for truth and Libert wil increaseand their exertions be animated by Success.
Should there be occasion, in case of necessity, to obtain the freedom of the citisens of Bostonof the protection of america in the one of other manner? In this of the other month I flatter m self, that I shal have the honour to make my complement to your Excellenc at Amsterdamand than shal I receive no greater Satisfaction as to persuade you that I am your Excellencys most obedient Servant

Fr. Ad. v. d. Kemp

