

Duplicate


Sir
Amsterdam September 19th. 1780



The day before yesterday, Mr. Dana arrived here from Paris with the dispatches which came by Mr. Searle.
I am very sensible of the Honour that is done me by this Appointment and yesterday morning I set myself seriously about discharging the Duties of it; and this day I have been some Leagues into the Country upon the same Service. There are good Reasons for concealing the Names of the Gentlemen to whom I have applied for Advice [161]and Assistance: but they are such as Congress I think would have approved if they had themselves been here.1
I was told very candidly, that I might possibly be much mistaken in my Information: that possibly I might think that Money was plentier here than it is: that America had more Friends than She has: and that the difficulty of negotiating a Loan here, was less than it is: that it was mysterious that Congress should empower any Gentleman to negotiate a Loan, without at the same time empowering the same or some other to negotiate a political Treaty of Alliance and Commerce consistent with the Treaties already made with other Powers; that a minister Plenipotentiary here would be advised to apply directly to the Prince and the States General; that he would not be affronted or ill treated by either: and whether recieved publickly or not, would be courted by many respectable Individuals, and would greatly facilitate a Loan.2
I was however encouraged to hope, that I might have some small Success, and was advised to a particular Course, in order to obtain it, that cannot as yet be communicated.
I must however apprize Congress, that there are many delicate Questions, which it becomes my duty to determine in a short time, and perhaps none of more difficulty than what House shall be applied to or employed. I have no Affections or Aversions to influence me in the Choice. And shall not depend upon my own Judgment alone without the Advice of such persons, as Congress will one day know to be respectable. But Offence will probably be taken, let the Choice fall upon whom it may by several other Houses, that have pretensions and undoubted Merit. As this may occasion Censure and Complaints, I only ask of Congress, not to judge of those Complaints, without hearing my Reasons, and this Request I presume I need not make.3
I have only to add, that the Moment Mr. Laurens shall arrive, or any other Gentleman vested with the same Commission, I will render him every Service in my Power, and communicate to him every Information I may possess. But I ought not to conclude without giving my opinion that it is absolutely necessary that Mr. Laurens, or whoever comes in his place, should have a Commission of Minister Plenipotentiary. If that Gentleman was now here with such a Commission, it would have more Influence, than perhaps any Body in America can imagine, upon the Conduct of this Republick, upon the Congress at Petersbourg and upon the Success of Mr. Jay at Madrid.
I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obedient and most humble Servant
[162]
