



Gentlemen
The Hague, 1 January 1779



Upon returning here, Tuesday evening, I went to see our friend. He told me that nothing had been decided yet, but that, in spite of all that might still happen tomorrow, things would end well. I knew what he meant. He also told me that Sir Joseph Yorkes excessive influence on an important person manifested itself more and more, and that there was no doubt that the latter had made secret arrangements with his cousin.1
After dinner on the following day, Wednesday, I visited the French ambassador. While he was out walking, the States Generals answer to the memorandum was delivered by its agent, who was told to return. His Excellency, who already knew its content, told me that he would reject it and did so.2 He also told me that he had in readiness the declaration by which the citizens of the state are to be excluded from the Kings regulation in favor of neutrals and deprived of the privileges they enjoy in his ports, and that the declaration will soon be made official and public.
The Grand Facteur thinks that this affair will benefit the anti-British party as much as the taking of Bergen-op-Zoom3 harmed them thirty years ago, and that the time will come when the others will have to have recourse to the latter in order to lift the opprobrium which their catering to 4 has brought upon them.
Wednesday evening I went to see our friend. He could spare me only a moment. The States Generals response to the French memorandum is the same as that taken in the plurality by the States of Holland, with a few minor, meaningless additions. The members did not even consult their respective provinces on the matter: another blow to the constitution. One of these gentlemen, with whom I had the opportunity to speak, told me, as the only excuse, that this is not the first time that we have acted in this manner. I replied that a prostitute could say the same. I have seen a letter from a very important official of one of the provinces in which he censures and reproaches such behavior. Friesland is the one province that can least do without French trade.
