



Sir
Amsterdam the 5th. Jne 1782



It was with concern we fond by the letter Yor Excellency honord s with in date of the 1st. instant yor and Mr. Thaxters indisposition, we sincerely wish a speedy restablishment of yor healths, that yo may vizit as soon as yo wish this Capital, which however we do not sppose will be hastend on Accont of the small [96]Ballance to be payd us, as we wish yo to make it perfectly Convenient to yor self. We shall transfer agreable to yor orders the article of f 105. payd Mr. Dmas from Yor Excellencys Accont to that of Congress, it being for publick bsiness.
We are mch obliged to yo for yor attention in retrning s Mr. Tyarinks [Pjasink] letter &ca.1 and shall esteem yor sending s back also two from Docor. Franklin we send yo last winter for yor persal,2 as we are apprehensive we shall be under the necesisity of troubling Congress with a tedios and disagreable Correspondce. at which that Honble. Body mst natrally wonder at, as they will after all refer or Acconts back to those persons in Erope, who should be the best judges, in that case it mst appear to them, as it mst to every jdicios person, that delays were soght only to add to the vexations of varios kind we have been made to experience, for as to or disinterestedness, at least in that bsiness, it Can not be misconstrued, as we are as ready to repeat the like offer to Congress we made, before we knew how the affair of the ships would trn ot, and give p any advantage there may have resulted from the shares we were made to hold in those ships, though we were exposed to be saddled with the whole loss that might have happend; There for if that (trifling as it is) Could be an object, I shold think it would add bt little to the sacrifices I have made, and I would not for such a paltry Consideration pt Congress under the embarassment sch an offer from me would Case them; nor do I see on what reasonable pretence an application to them is made before we are satisfied; as all objections there to are removed, by or offer of entering into any obligation to be still Accountable for any part of the Acconts Congress should disaprove, and wold with Chearflness abide by whatever lterior resoltion it may make; being persuaded it is not the intent of that Honble. body that we should be mortified on every occasion withot reason, as we are Conscios we deserve a more liberal treatment, and that by or interfering for the Credit of the United States, we should be subject, thogh in a less degree, to the Inconvenience we suffer from a Separate one, and on private Accounts from the enormos advances we are at in amca. and which makes s want the more what we have advanced for Congress, though an object of no great magnitude.3
It would have given s pleasre, to have been able to reply more Satisfactorily to that part of yor Letter concerning the obligations which yo know were first produced, when it was impossible to do any thing with them, and what we attempted abot them, was Con-[97]trary to or judgement, in mere Complyance to Your Excys. persuasion.4 Hear, and at the acknowledgement of the American Independence, when we could have disposed of them, we were not at Liberty; it is now evident that then, it became immaterial to the Success of the Loan, in whose hands it was placed; provided it was not in those of an obnoxios Caracter to the frinds of America, and Liberty.5 Congress indeed might have been saved the expence of the last 500 Obligations had it not been necessary, (had they been used), which we could not but think they would; that they should all be of the Same year: now indeed we join yor Excy. in opinion that they may be doomd to the flames for any Service they may be of.
If we mst be forced as complainants or petitioners before Congress to demand or de, we shall be glad as soon as may be, to have the objections to or Acconts Yr. Excy. shall be pleased to make, (which have been Chiefly reserved in silence,) that we may be able to state flly the whole matter; which will be an Ircksome task to me, who Wished only to enjoy in retirement the reflexions which will arise from the sccess of my last Years labors, in the Common Case; being not less Ambitios to preserve my own Independence then I have been earnest for that of others.
I have the honor to be with all de Respect. Sir. Yor Excellencys most obedient and most hmble Servant

John de Nefville

