



Gentlemen
The Hague, 11 June



Yesterday morning I received, from Sir George Grand, the packet containing your letter of 2 June1 and decided that I should go first to the Grand Facteur. He, however, was to be out of town all day so I used the time to make a copy of the treaty in case I needed one in future dealings connected to the Mission with which I have the honor charged. This morning, gentlemen, the Grand Facteur confessed to me that he was somewhat embarrassed by the portion of your letter putting me under his direction. I suggested that he wait until he had written to his House but, without responding to that, he said to me that, genuinely, in his capacity as Grand Facteur,2 he could not direct me in this regard; that is, he could neither advise me on nor prevent my dmarche (that is the official answer). In his private capacity, however, he believed that the difficulties that might result from not making the demarche would be much greater than those that might result from going through with it. Among other things, it would show poor taste to be evasive and appear to go back on ones word after having fostered the hope of receiving this copy which, as a result, is awaited with much anticipation and interest. He thus advised me to carry it to its intended conclusion (there is the true plan), telling the Grand Pensionary only that I received the order to give him the treaty for his information so that, when he deemed it appropriate, he might report on it to the States of the Provinces &c. Nevertheless, at the same time, from a due regard for the Court of France, which has not yet deemed it appropriate to print and publish the treaty, I should request him not to distribute or give copies to anyone.
I asked him if it was appropriate to send a copy to our friend, for the regency of his city, and to inform the Grand Pensionary about it? He replied, certainly, but with the same request that it not be copied. I am now busy, therefore, making a second copy for our friend.
This evening, at 8:30, the Grand Facteur asked me to confer with him tomorrow before going to see the Grand Pensionary.
