



Dear Sir
Germantown, 16th June 1784.



I heartily give you joy of your meeting your Mrs Adams & her amiable Daughter, as you will receive them before you See thisThey are to Sail from Boston about 3 or 4 days hence. We Sincerely mourn our loss in their departure, & as Sincerely rejoice at the foreseen happy meeting of Such dear Friends after Such a long absence may you all return in Safety, & bless your native Country, after having renderd her the most essential Services abroad. I thank you for your exertions for the public good, & hope you will receive more Substantial proofs of the peoples gratitude, than Patriots usually receive.
The embarrassmt of my private affairs, & having no concern in public business, has long prevented my writing to you; but as my own affairs begin to wear a better face, I hope to feel that freedom that is necessary for epistolary conversation.1
I have a prospect of carrying on, once more, the SpCe Candle Manufr; but it has been greatly impeded by the uncertainty of a Market for the oil. 18 Stg: per Ton, duty, on its importation into G B, is a prohibition.2 Shall Britain Say, whether we Shall have a Whale fishery, or not?! They will doubtless do all in their power to prevent our growth in the Maratime way: But will they Sacrifice their Manufrs to obtain that end? But Supposing they will run that risque; will not France, or Holland readily Supply us with Goods, & receive Oil in payment, at as good a price as G B used to give? It is of great national concern, that we encourage our fisheries; in this point of view, I have mentiond the matter, & Shoud be honord by a reply.
Large quantities of SpCe Candles used to be Shipd from hence to Holld; & I suppose the demand will rather increase, than diminish, as they are now freely admitted into the Romish Chhs. Upon this ground, I think it probable, that Some great Mercht there, might be willing to Supply 8 or 10 m  Stg, in Goods, to receive Oil
[241]
& Candles, principally, if not wholly, in payment. I Shoud be willing to enter into a contract of this kind, upon a fair bottom. With our Works, & Sufficient Stock, may be annually turnd out, about 50 m lb of Candles & 100 Tons Oil. If one of your Secretaries be desired to inquire into this matter, & reply, it will greatly oblige / Dear Sir, Your Sincere Frd & hble Servt:

J: Palmer


P.S. My Son has hired a Store in Boston, & is going into the Com: way, & woud be glad of Consignmts.3





18th. a Second PS.



Since the foregoing, I have revolved a matter in my mind, which being attended with great delicacy, I found myself under some diffeculty in determining, whether friendship obligd me to Speak of it, or not; but knowing the candour of those most nearly concerned, I Shall venture to say, that it is commonly Spoken of, that Mr Tyler pays his addresses to Your very Amiable Daughter; & appearances countenance the report: neither of the parties, nor Mrs Adams, have said a word to me about the affair; but I thot it proper to say what I know of my very good friend Tyler. Previous to his coming to Braintree, I knew not any thing of him, but tis said that he scattered some wild Oats; be this as it may, since he came hither, his conduct, so far as I know, has been unexceptionable, & he is generally respected, & has, I believe, his full Share of business. As to his circumstances in life, I know nothing, only that he has purchased Mr Borlands farm here, about 100 Acres, for about 1000. In my embarrassments, he has been exceeding friendly, which lies me under great obligations, & perhaps has prejudiced me in his favor.4 But in this delicate matter, I did not think it my duty to intrude advice; only to represent matters of fact, which I have truly done; & I trust that you will excuse one who is always your reel friend

J: Palmer


