



Monsieur,
Lahaie 1er. Dec. 1784.



Je continue de rendre compte  V. E., ainsi quau Congrs, que jai donn une seconde Dclaration pour servir de Lettre de mer portant,that Mr. Theod. Gallois, Ship-Brooker for the American trade at Amst. has sent to me and exhibited in Original, the legal Transport or Deed, passed in Oct. 28th. before Mr. E. M. Dorper, public Notary of Holl. at Amst., by Mr. L. M. Graves for himself & for his Partners Mess. Graves & Co: Merchts. at Amst., by which they have sold & transported in full property, to Mess. Vos, De Vyver & Graves Merchts. at Charlestown in Sth. Carolina, the Brig of late called Vry van Dwinglandy & comanded by Mr. Jan Schram, with all her appurtenances, and so as she lyes actually before the City of Amsterdam And that he has also exhibited to me in Original, the Certificate of their Lordships the Burgomasters and regency of Amstm., by which on Nov. 18 has appeared before them Mr. Isaac De Vyver, and declared upon Oath so M. G. A. h. h, that the aforesaid Brig, now called the Purpoise, of the Burthen of about 65 lasts,1 and comanded by Mr. Miles Cosson of Boston, is the full property of him Isaac de Vyver and of his aforesaid Company established at Charlestown in S. Carolina, and of them alone; and that she is actually bound from Amst. to Charlestown in S. Carolina laden with Goods and Merchandises. &c. &c.[]2
En mme temps je me suis fait signer par Mr. Galloisthat he has received gratis from Mr. Dumas a Declaration to serve as a Sea-Letter for the Brig the Purpoise, comd. by Mr. Miles Cosson of Boston, and being the property of &c. Merchts. at Charlestown, without pretending or accepting any reward for it what so ever, in behalf of
[439]
Mr. Dumas, who has also returned him the Deed & Certificate mentioned in the aforesaid Declaration.
Ce Brig doit avoir actuellement fait voile dAmstm.
On continue dtre ici dans lincertitude quant  la paix ou guerre. Cela se dveloppera pourtant avant la fin de lan. Le 26 Nov. les Et. dHoll. ont pris une rsolution finale trs mortifiante pour le Conseil dEtat, & qui aura des suites importantes.3
On ne tardera pas de me talonner de nouveau de la part de Mr. Thulemeyer, pour une rponse aux Lettres, que jai achemines de sa part  lhonble. Commission sous ladresse de Mr. D. Humphrys, & dernierement  Votre Exce. Jespere quElles nont point t interceptes, & que V. E. a aussi reu celle que jai fait passer par les mains de Mr. Storer.4
De Votre Excellence / Le trs-humble & trs- / obissant serviteur

C.w.f. Dumas


Jai bien reu une Lettre que S. E. Mr. Jepherson ma fait lhonneur de mcrire; & jattends davoir excut sa principale comission, pour lui en rendre compte.5

