



Gentlemen
N. York Octbr. 16th 1775



I1 have been here, almost ever since I had the Pleasure of seeing you at Fairfield, and have attentively observed the Conduct of these Peoples Leaders; and, according to the best of my slender Judgement, think that their Councils are stampt with Folly, Timidity, and Treach-[206]ery. But to trace the whole Labyrinth of their Inconsistency and Perfidy, would be irksome and endless; therefore I shall only mention such as have occurred lately, leaving the Rest for a Day of more Leisure.
In the first Place, the Committee of Safety, during the Recess of the Congress, passd a Resolve to impress all the Arms of those who had not signd the Association by the 16th of Septr., the Time of passing the Resolve,2 which was done too, only in Consequence of a Letter, or Letters, from your Body, as it is generally imagined. This was first attempted to be carried into Execution on Long Island, in Queens County, by sending out one or two of their own Board, with 4 or 5 Citizens, who at the same Time were restraind from exercising any manner of Coercion whatever by private Instruction, unless endangerd by Violence &c. According they went out on the 23rd Ultimo and were treated in the most contemptuous Manner, even to Insult and Threat; declaring they knew no Congress, neither would they sign any Association, nor pay any Part of the Expense accruing by an Opposition to the Kings Troops &c. On the Contrary, that they were determind to support the Kings Laws and defend themselves against all other Authority &c. Some of this happend within 5 or 6 Miles of the City, and some further. They got a few worthless Arms, from some of the most Timid, who, it was thot, had concealed their best.3
After they had been out 2 or 3 Days a Report was brot to Town that they were imprisond, and an Order was made out for the first Battalion of Militia, with some of the Provincials, to go to their Relief. But before this could be carried into Execution, Means were devised, by mustering their whole Force and calling a Committee, to defeat the Measure.
