

[11 June 1782]

Translation from the Dutchminuted on a Seal of 48 Stivers.
(Signed.) Van HoleNotar.
On the Eleventh da of June in the ear one thousand Seven hundred and eight two appeared before me Pieter Galenus van Hole Notar of Amsterdam admitted b the honble. court of Holland.
The Honble. John Adams Esqr. Minister plenipotentiar on the part of the united States of America b their high Mightinesses the Lords States general of the united Netherlands &a. &a. in qualit as especiall qualifed and authorized b the above mentioned States of america in Congress assembled, for and in behalf of Said States of America to raise a Loan with an person or persons States or [111][112] companies with Subjoined assurance in good faith to ratif and fulfill all that Shall be done in this respect b him Honble. Appearer according to authentick cop and translation of the original Commission or Power exhibited to me Notar and deposited in m custod in behalf of the joint Mone Lenders.
The Honble. Appearer residing in the Hague but being now in this Cit.
And the honble. Appearer acknowledged himself, in his aforesaid qualit and thus in the Name and in behalf of the abovementioned States of America to be dul and Lawfull indebted to and in behalf of Sundr Persons or Mone Lenders in all a Sum of one Million guilders Dutch current Mone1 arising from and on account of So much read Mone received b him honble. Appearer in his aforesaid qualit to his perfect Satisfaction from the Said Mone Lenders in consequence of the receipt hereafter mentioned to be Signed b the honble. Appearer under the authentick Copies hereof, expressl and formall disavowing the exuse of untold Mones.
And the Honble. Appearer promised in his aforesaid qualit to repa in this Cit the Said Sum of one Million of Guilders free from all costs charges and damages to the abovementioned Mone Lenders or their Assigns at the expiration of fifteen ears after the first da of June 1782 and that in the following Manner to Wit:
That the abovementioned Capital Shall remain fixed during the Space of ten ears and that with the eleventh ear and thus on the first da of June 1793 a fifth part or two hundred thousand guilders of the Said Capital of one Million Shall be redeemed and in the Same Manner from ear to ear untill the first da of June 1797 inclusive So that the whole Capital Shall be redeemed and discharged within the abovementioned Space of fifteen ears.
And that for Said Capital at first for the whole and afterwards for the Residue at the Expiration of Ever ear interest Shall be paid, at the rate of five p:Cent in the ear commencing the first da of June 1782, and to continue untill the final accomplishment and that on coupons to be Signed b or for account of Said honble. Appearer in his aforesaid qualit.
That the abovementioned redeeming Shall be performed b drawing in presence of a Notar and witnesses in this cit after the Expiration of the first mentioned ten ears in Such a Manner that the Nos. of the Obligations drawn Shall be betimes made known in the publick papers.
[113]
That the pament of the interests as also the redeeming of the respective Periods Shall be made at the compting houses of the hereafter mentioned Gentlemen Directors or at Such other places within this Cit as Shall likewise be advertized in the publick Papers.
That the Directors of this Negotiation Shall be Messieurs Wilhem and Jan Willink Nicolaas and Jacob van Staphorst and de la Lande & Fnje Merchants of this Cit who are b these presents thereto named and appointed b the Honble. Appearer in his afore Said qualit.
The honble. Appearer promising and engaging in the Names of his Constituents that the amount of the interests and of the redeemings to be made from time to time of the Said capital Shall be in due Time remitted to the aforesaid Gentlemen Directors their Heirs or Successors in good Bills of Exchange America Products, or in read Mone without an abatement or deduction Whatsoever.
That this Obligation Shall never be Subject to an Imposts or Taxes alread laid or in time to come to be laid in the Said united States of America even in case (which God forbid) an war Hostilities or Divisions Should arise between aforesaid united States or an of them on the one Side and the States of these Lands on the other that the pament of the Capital or interests of this Obligation can in no wise nor under an pretext whatsoever be hindered or delaed.
The Honble. Appearer in his aforesaid qualit promising and engaging moreover for and in the Names of the Said united States that there Shall never be made b them or on their Parts or an of them in particular an convention or treat publick or private at the making of peace or otherwise b which the validit and accomplishment of these presents might be prejudiced or where b an thing Contrar thereto might be Stipulated but that without an Exception the contents hereof Shall be maintained in full force.
The honble. Appearer in his aforesaid qualit likewise promises engages and binds himself b these presents that this engagement Shall be ratifed and approved as Soon as possible b Said States in congress assembled and that authentick Cop Translation of Said ratification with the original Shall be deposited in custod of me Notar to be there kept with Said authentick cop translation of the Commission or Power of Him Honble. Appearer and the engrossed hereof for the Securit of the Mone Lenders untill the abovemen-[114]tioned Capital and interests as aforesaid Shall be redeemed and paid off.
And there Shall be made of this Act (as the Honble. Appearer in his aforesaid qualit consents) above and besides the abovementioned engrossed one thousand authentick Copies which Shall be of the Same force and value and have the Same Effect as the engrossed one, under ever one of which copies Shall be placed a receipt of one thousand guilders dutch current Mone either on Name or in blank at the choice of the Mone Lenders to be Signed b him Honble. Appearer, and which Receipts Shall be respectivel numbered from No. 3001 to 4000 inclusive and countersigned b abovementioned Gentlemen Directors and dul attested b me Notar as a testimon that no more than one thousand obligations are numbered in virtue of this Act.
All which authentick copies with the Receipts hereunder placed Shall at the redeeming of the capital be restored b the Bearers.
On failure of prompt pament as well of the capital as of the interests at the appointed Periods, the Capital or residue thereof ma be demanded b the Gentlemen Directors in behalf of the Mone Lenders who Shall be then interested therein and the aforesaid Principals and committents of Him Honble. Appearer Shall in that case be held and bound to redeem and discharge immediatel in one Sum the remaining capital with the interests and charges.
For the accomplishment and performance of all the abovewritten the Honble. Appearer binds in his aforesaid qualit and thus in the Names and on the Part of the abovementioned united States of America the Said united States of America jointl and each of them in particular together with all their Lands, chattels Revenues and Products together with Imposts and Taxes alread laid and raised in the Same or in time to come to be laid and raised and thus of all the united States of america jointl and of each of the Same in particular for the Whole.
He the Honble. Appearer renouncing in the Names as above for that purpose expressl beneficium divisionis as likewise de duobus vel pluribus reis debendi2 Signifing a retribution of debts and that when two or more are indebted, each of them can Satisf with the pament of their Portion, the honble. Appearer promising in his aforesaid qualit never to have recourse to the Said or to an other Evasions whatsoever.
This being passd (after Translation into English was made hereof, and which likewise is Signed b the honble. Appearer and [115][116] deposited in the custod of me the Said Notar) within Amsterdam aforesaid in the presence of Gidion Victor et Cornelis Marchant Witnesses.

Coll:

(Signed.) P: G: van HoleNotar


