
Boston, 4 April 1769. MS not found. Printed Boston Gazette, 24 July 1769. At the town meeting of 13 March, the selectmen reported the steps they had taken for vindicating the Character of the Inhabitants against the charges which had led to Bostons quasi-occupation by royal forces. The town then appointed a special committee to consider what may be still necessary to be done for vindication of the Town. James Otis, Samuel Adams, Thomas Cushing, Richard Dana, Joseph Warren, and JA were assigned this duty. The committee made its report on 4 April, presenting the Draft of a Petition and Address to his Majesty. The town accepted the draft unanimously and ordered that a copy be sent to Isaac Barr. (Boston Record Commissioners, 16th Report, p. 272274; for a discussion of the selectmens role in vindicating the town in early 1769, see Franklin, Papers, 16:4345; the letter to Barr enclosing the petition is printed in Samuel Adams, Writings, 1:332336.)
The petition reaffirmed Bostonians devotion to the Crown and minimized the significance of the demonstrations against the customs commissioners in 1768. After describing their vain attempts to learn the nature of the charges which had persuaded the King to station troops in the town, the petitioners closed with the request that George III would be graciously pleased to give Orders that the Town may be favord with Governor Bernards Letters, the Memorials of the Commissioners of the Customs here, and other papers which must so deeply affect their most important Interests: That they may have the Justice of being heard, upon Notice by Council, upon any Matters of Charge that may have been brot against them; and of laying before your Majesty, and the whole Nation what they may have to offer in their Vindication. JAs contribution to the petition has not been ascertained.
The town meeting did not order publication of the petition at the time of its adoption. However, on 4 July the town accepted, and ordered to be printed, a resolution which described the petition to the King in great detail. Only after the publication of the 4 July resolve did the petition appear in the local press (Boston Gazette, 10 and 24 July 1769). Isaac Barr presented the petition to George III on 2 June, but no acknowledg-[224]ment of the appeal has been found (Barr to James Otis, 20 July 1769, Boston Record Commissioners, 16th Report, p. 298299).
