



My Dear Sir
Boston 10th. April 17791



The preceeding is copy of my last, of the 17th. Decr. by the Alliance Frigate, who saild the 14th. Janry. I hope she is safly arrived with you?
I have your esteemed favor of the 2nd. Decr. by which I find my Son, is happily situated at Montauban, with Mr. Revallat aine, a Gentleman of good Character, with whom he will have opportunity of acquireing many advantages. It gives me real Pleasure to hear, he is deligent, I hope he will conduct himself with strict decorum and propriety, avoid the foibles and extravagances that Youth too commonly run into. I know this requires advice and frequent precautions, to shun the company of the vicious and debauchee; I beg he may as often receive this from you sir as you write him.
The Dean Frigate saild upon a Cruise with the Alliance the third [28]day, after they saild, parted with her, has sent into this Port, the Ship Viper of 18 Guns 75 Men, from Liverpool, is since arrived at Martineco, taken nothing more, except a light Ship in ballast from N York for Portugal, going for Wines, for use of the British Army and Fleet, which he burnt.
The Genl. Gates Capt. Waters and Sloop Providence Capt. Rathburn saild in Decr. The former sent into this Port a Schooner from Malaga, loaded with Wines, Brandy and Fruit, for the Army and Navy at N York, since that in company with this States Brigantine Hazzard, they have taken and sent into this Harbour, a Privateer Brigantine from Antigua of 18 Guns 95 Men, a Brigantine from Halifax loaded with dry Fish and Mackreil for the W. India Islands, both in Port.
The Sloop Providence captured a Schooner from Quebec, for N York, with Flour, a Brigantine from Jamacia with upwards of 300 hhds. of Rum and Sugar, neither of them arrived, supposed to be lost or retaken. A Brigantine from Jamacia with Rum, Sugar &c. &c. a large Brigantine from Ireland with 8000 bushels of Oats for N York. A Ship from Glascow with Provisions and dry Goods for Jamacia, all safty in Port and sold for 240,000.
The Warren, Ranger and Queen of France saild the 13th. March in company upon a Cruise, have heard nothing of either since they Saild. The Frigates Providence and Boston and sloop Providence saild the 13th. Instant to Cruise in this Bay for Six days, after that Time the Ship Providence to return to Nantasket Road, to wait the Orders of Congress for some particular service, the others to continue their Cruise to the Southward.
