




Sir
Amsterdam 29 June 1784.



We receive this night a letter of the Express with advice of his arrival with 3 truncks in brussel, but to his great Surprise as well as ours the Same are arrested there, and complains much there abt. of Mr. Barclay, whom he had requested several time to enquire if he could take and transport the same with Safety, who assured him not to anxious abt. it, and in consequence he had reposed on Mr. Barclay abt. it, for We had Strongly recommanded to him to enquire of Said Gentleman, if he Should run the least danger, whh. he Should
[256]
absolutely avoid, he was now going to apply directly to our Ministers for assistance and we Shall write to them on the subject.1
Mr. Barcklay gave him a trunck closed of whch. the Key was lost, to pack up in the Same the goods &c, he got a smit to open it and bought two truncks more, with the Packing of whch. he has been buzy at Mr. Barclays from 9  clock in the morning till three  clock in the afternoon and Mr. Barclay gave him a note of the goods packed in them.
We are exceedingly affected of this behaviour whilst Mr. Barclay Should have taken better information and given the required instructions to the man, and not have left your concerns and his person so exposed.
We hope to hear all will be released next mail, and he on the road hither, whilst without this accident he Should already have been arrived
If your excellency might Judge proper to join a letter to ours, it might perhaps be of Service, in the meanwhile We have the honour to remain With esteem. / Sir / Your Excellencies Most Humb1 / & Obedient Servants

Wilhem & Jan Willink



Messrs. C & R. Puller have payd to your Son young Mr. Adams


in London
 52:10 
and for a bill of My Lady


John Adams
 60:  
making together


commn. there
 1. 2: 6




113: 12.  6
for whch. the Acct. of your


Excellency is charged at 36/8 SC 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .B  1249: 17: 8





Agio 3 1/2 PC
43: 15: 




Ct.  1293: 12: 8


whch. please to note in Conformity

Wm & Jn Willink


