



May it please your Honours
Bourdeaux the 3d. October 1778



We the Subscribed first and Second Mate, for us and eight more Sailors, of the Snow the Nancy of Edington [Edenton] Nord Caroline, James Morrisson Master, enterd her the 3d of May this Year, according to the Subscribed Indenture, to stire her either to Spain or France loaden and bring her back in any Port of the united Provinces [i.e. United States], for the stipulated Quantity of Pounds monthly Wages, of [105]which Captin Morrisson paid us on hand advancing a Month in hard Dollars, two and a half per Pound. We happily arrived at Bordeaux about the middle of July, got the second Months Wages in French Money, twelve and an half livers per Pound, and discharged the Snow. Meanwhile, the Correspondent of the Owners at Bordeaux Mr. Delap sold the Snow contrary to Agreement, and the 27th. August we were orderd a Shore and to quit the Vessel or Snow. Captin Morrisson left us in the Lurch, and directed us to Mr. Delap, who would but pay us with 300 per Cent Damage and put us on other Vessels for America; which we absolutely refused and could not comply with. We therefore were necessitated for an Interpreter and Translator named John Cotter. This Man went with us to the Admirality Attorney Mr. Bonnet the 10th. September, who sent us to the Attorney General of the royal Admirality; He, after hearing sent us back to Mr. Bonnet for Procurration. Mr. Bonnet orderd us to translate the Indenture; We went to him the 11th September with the Translation, but he told us cooly, having spoken with the Attorney General that it was but a Difference in Currency, he would not assist us, and warned our Translator not to involve us into a dangerous Lawsuit. Then we were obliged to seek for Help by the Consul of the United Congres Mr. Bonfield,1 who wrote us a Petition to the Admirality which we translated and presented the 16th September.
A Monsieur de Navarre, Conseiller au Parlement et Juge LAmiraut de Guienne
Thomas Grant Contremaitre du Senau La Nancy dEdington de la Caroline Septentrionale Captiaine James Morrisson, sollicite trs humblement tant pour lui que pour les neuf autre Marins ses Compagnons du dit Senau et represente a LAmiraut royale de Bordeaux Que nous Suppliants trs humbles sommes entr au Bord du dit Senau la Nancy en la Caroline Septentrionale pour une Voyage ou en Espagne ou La France, et retour dans les Provinces unis, conformement aux Articles signs de Part et dautre le 3 Mai de cette Anne, en recevant davance un Mois de Gages le Pound compt a deux Dollars et demi convenus. Etant heureusement arriv a Bordeaux Vos Suppliants trs humbles recurent leur Gages pour le Second mois en Argent de France douze livres et demi par Pound convenu; Mais dans cet Intervalle et que le Vaissau fut totalement decharg ils virent avec Etonnement que le Proprietaires avoient vendus Le Senau par leur Correspondant ici. Il rest a nous les tres humbles Sollicitants le Payement de leur Gages dus jusquau Tems de leur dechargement du Senau et aussi lndemnit [106]usuelle des Marins congedies chez lEtranger. Les Suppliants trs humbles se sont address au Capitaine pour le dit Payement quil nous a refus sous des Conditions quils jugent etre injustes. Et comme les Suppliants trs humbles ne sont pas capables de finir le Different a laimable et se voyant reduit  la Necessit de supplier trs humblement LAmiraut royale de faire comparoitre le Capitaine devant vous et de juger notre Cas comme vous le trouvez droit, et que nous attendons et nous y soumettons avec tout le Respect.2
This Petition composed by Mr. Bonfield was kindly received by the Judge Mr. Navarre, who returned it some hours after and with it addrest us to the Attorney Mr. Combret, since Mr. Bonnet refused to assist us. The 19th. September we appeared before the Admirality with our Attorney; The Captin being cited came not, but Mr. Bonnet represented him or more Delap, and declared that his Party did not as yet fournish him with the Materials he beggd the Court to be excused. On the 23rd September the Case was presented at the Session by our Attorney. The Attorny General spoke much about Difference in Currency which was respectfully opposed, and the Sentence was:
Puis Combret et Bonnet ensembles, Le Procurreur du Roi faisant Droit du Requis de Partie de Combret, avons condamn et condamnons celle de Bonnet de payer a la dite Partie de Combret les Gages qui lui ont t promis, conformement a son Engagement jusquau Moment ou il a et congedi. Ensemble pour le Tems qui lui est necessaire pour retourner au Lieu, do il est party; Et en outre de sa Nourriture et Conduite jusquau dit Lieu, Deduction faite toute Fois de ce qui lui a t deja pay; A raison de quoy les Parties conviendront dExperts Negotians de la presente Villi; ou faute parelles den convenir, il en sera par nous pris le Nomm dOffice, tant pour fixer le montant des dites Gages et Nourriture ou Conduitte que pour en regler le Prix argent de France en Egard et a Concurrence de ce que luy a t promis de la Province ou lEngagement a ete pass, avec Depens.3
We were consequently orderd to chuse an Expert, and having no Harm nor Thought of Lawyers Tricks and Turns of Law, we chused above said Mr. Bonfield against his Will, and proposed him at the Session of the Admirality the 26th of September; and the Court orderd the Attorney of the opposite Party to propose our Expert. But Delap, not the Captin, for he never appeard, rejected Mr. Bonfield as too partial in the Case being the american Consul. And he chuse for his Expert a young Irish Mr. McCarrie; only to vex and detain us.
[107]
Mr. Bonfield addrest us to Mr. Mainard Merchant Broker, who refused it, telling us Mr. Bonfield was the only Man in Town who understands our Case. We were directed to Messrs. Teziers who answered, in like Cases we apply ourselves to Mr. Bonfield, when we find ourselves involved with the Crew; telling us Mr. Delap was in the wrong to reject such an able Expert. We went lastly to Mr. Poncett who begd of us to be excused and that he knew nothing of Nord Carolinas Currency. Our Attorney Combret madly persisted for an Expert, went in the Country, and transmitted our Case to his Confrater the Attorney Cassenave. As we were unable to find an Expert being strangers, We begd the Admira[lity t]o chuse for both Parties Experts doffice, at the Session of the 30th. [Septem]ber, but it was refused.
We deserted and basely tosst [...]4 Mariners falsly deluded from our Nord Caroline humbly beg your Hon[ours] of a speedy assistance as your Honours thinks proper to accquaint the admirality here of the true Value of a Nord Caroline Pound &ca. &ca. in french Money, and the usual Allowance paid per Months in Strange Countries to bring back poor deserted and basely deluded Mariners.5
And we shall as in Duty bound ever pray

Thomas Grant
Joses Hill

