



Gentlemen
The Hague, 12 January 1779



The States of Holland reassemble tomorrow. Our friend arrives tonight, and I will wish him great success. People here are more and more perplexed. Instead of agreeing to the response to the memorandum, which as I mentioned was sent to M. Berkenrode, the [French] Ambassador received an express from his court, the contents of which we will <soon> learn at the same time as the results of the deliberations of the States of Holland. In the meantime, I will transcribe here the explanatory note to the memorandum presented to the Grand Pensionary by the Ambassador on 19 December, and of which His Excellency gave me a copy.
The King, determined to obtain complete assurances regarding the future resolutions of the States General, flatters himself that Their High Mightinesses will explain themselves, in a clear and precise manner, on the character of the perfect neutrality from which His Majesty persuades himself that they do not wish to deviate. He expects that they will maintain under the flag of the United Provinces all of the liberties vested in them as a result of their independence; and for their trade, the complete integrity assured them by the law of nations and confirmed by their treaties. However, this liberty could be illusory and its integrity altered if Their High Mightinesses did not maintain it by an adequate protection and decided to deprive their subjects of the convoys, without which they cannot enjoy, to their fullest extent, the rights which they have acquired and which they claim. A resolution, of whatever nature, whose effect would be to frustrate so legitimate a protection, either of all branches of their commerce in general or that in all kinds of naval stores in particular, would be regarded in the present circumstances as an act of partiality, derogatory to the principles of absolute neutrality, and thus would inevitably bring about the consequences set forth in the [352]memorandum which has been delivered to Their High Mightinesses. It is particularly on this essential point and on the subsequent intention to observe a neutrality so characterized that the King requests from Their High Mightinesses a clear and precise response.
