



Gent
Bedford county Virginia Novr. the 20th 1775.



The express Messenger has been long detaind, by my not being at home. It so hapend I was out in serch of the Mineral Salt Petre [263] when he came to my house. I have at sundry times had small parcels of Salt Petre made from that mineral to manufacture into gun powder and find it to be very good, when properly refind. But no one attemting to carry on the business so as to be of Use to the Country I resolvd to Exert My self that way as far as my small fortune woud admit. I have purchasd a place on New River Where a small river cald Reed Iseland emtys in about Eight Miles below the Led mines. The Mineral lies on the south West side of Reed Iseland river facing the North East. It is three or four hundred yds. long from one to two hundred feet high. It aperars White, yellow, Purple and blue in places Promiscuously, on the south west it is coverd With a large hill of earth. In some parts this Mineral produced Nitre in Others a Salt I take to be that of the Glober Kind. I have not any of the Mineral Salt Petre in its refind state by me, but have sent you samples of the Mineral. I only broke into the rock about Eighteen inches deep. The Salt Petre appeard, betwen the diferent Stratums of Mineral. You will observe the thickness of each layer by the rock sent you. I have sent a small matter of the Salt Petre as it appears betwen Each layer of rock, also sample of the other salts Just as it is found there. I am told by the Man I purchasd of that the cold north East winds and freezing rains, moulter the Rocks and bring it down in great quantitys. On the north East Side of Reed Iseland River, almost Opposite the rocks, on a piece of cleard ground about half an acre The Salt Petre appears on the surface of the Earth and small Stones rather first on a soft redish stone a Sample of Which you have. It is on decending ground and When rain Washes all off, Which Appears again in twenty four howers fair weather, and so shoots out till washd of [off] again. This hapend Twice in four days that I was there. This place I intend to cover for Sweepings and of the Moulterd and pounded rock With dirt to Erect Pillars under Shelters like those describd at Hanover. If I can be able to compleat these I doubt not of Success. I intend immediately to set about it, but what quantity I can Make in a year you Will be as good Judges as My Self As I have fairly representd the Whole. I am informd there are Several places in those Parts Where the Mineral is preferable to that I have describd. I made choice of it for two reasons to Witthat of the Salt Petre Appearing Spontaneously on the Surface of the Earth and small stones, and for an Exceeding good Spot of ground Adjoining to Rayse bred. I have Sent a sample of Salt Petre Made from dirt. A number of People in those parts Make Salt Petre from floors of Old Houses, Although in small quantitys and Many Make [264] it into gunpowder. Pardon Me if I have been short in anything, While I assure you I am with the greatest Esteem Gent. your most Obet. most Humb. Servt.,

Chas. Lynch

