
I. (a) The 1796? Version
Sunday. Richmond. 1780. Dec. 31.1
At 8. A.M. the Governor [Th: J.]2 recieves the first intelligence that 27. sail of ships had entered Chesapeak bay, and were in the morning of the 29th. just below Willoughbys point, the Southern cape of James river,3 their destination unknown.
[1]781. Jan. 2. Tuesday.
At 10. A.M. information is recieved that they had entered James river, their advance being at Warrasqueak bay. Orders were immediately given for calling in the militia,  from some, and  from other counties. The members of the legislature, which rises this day, are the bearers of the orders to their respective counties. The Governor directs the removal of the Records into the country, and the transportation of the military stores from Richmond to Westham, there to be carried across the river.
Wed. Jan. 3.
At 8. P.M. the enemy are said to be a little below Jamestown, convenient for landing, if Williamsburg is their object.
Thursd. Jan. 4.
At 5. A.M. information is recieved that they had past Kennons and Hoods, the evening before with a strong Easterly wind; which determines their object to be either Petersburg or Richmond. The Governor now calls in the whole militia from the adjacent counties.
At 5. P.M. information that at 2. P.M. they were landed and drawn up at Westover,4 and consequently Richmond their destination. Orders are now given to discontinue waggoning the military stores from Richmond to Westham; and to throw them across the river directly at Richmond.
The Governor, having attended to this till an hour and a half in [259] the night, then rode up to the Foundery, a mile below Westham,5 ordered Capts. Boush and Irish, and Mr. Hylton to continue all night waggoning to Westham the arms and stores still at the Foundery, to be thrown across the river at Westham; then proceeded to Westham, to press the transportation there across the river, and thence went to Tuckahoe,6 to take care of his family, which he had sent that far in the course of the day. He arrived there at 1. aclock in the night.
Frid. J[an. 5.]
Early in the morning he carried his family across the river there, and, sending them to Fine creek, 8 miles higher up,5 went himself to Brittons, opposite to Westham.5 Finding the arms &c. in a heap near the shore, and exposed to be destroyed by cannon from the North bank, he had them removed behind a point of land near by. He proceeded to Manchester.7 The enemy had arrived at Richmond at 1. P.M. Having found that nearly the whole arms had been brought there from Richmond, he set out for Chetwoods to meet with Baron Steuben, who had appointed that place as a rendezvous and Head-quarters; but not finding him there, and understanding he would be at Colo. Flemings, 6 miles above Brittons,5 he proceeded thither. The enemy had now a detachment at Westham, and sent a deputation from the city of Richmond to the Governor, at Colo. Flemings, to propose terms for ransoming the safety of the city; which terms he rejected.
Sat. Jan. [6.]
The Governor returned to Brittons; had measures taken more effectually to secure the books and papers there. The enemy, having burnt some houses and stores, left Richmond, after 24. hours stay there, and encamped at Fourmile creek, 10. miles below;8 and the Governor went to look to his family at Fine creek.
Sund. Jan. [7.]
He returned to Brittons to see further to the arms there, exposed on the ground to heavy rains which had fallen the night before, and then proceeded to Manchester, where he lodged that night. The enemy encamped at Westover.
Mond. Ja[n. 8.]
At half after 7. A.M. he crossed over to Richmond, and resumed his residence there. The enemy are still retained in their encampment at Westover by an Easterly wind. Colo. John Nicholas has now 300. militia at the Forest, 6. miles above Westover,9 General [260] Nelson 200. at Charles city Courthouse, 8. miles below Westover,5 Gibson 1000. and Baron Steuben 800. on the South side of James river.
Tuesd. Jan. 9.
The enemy are still encamped at Westover.
Wed. Jan. 10.
At 1. P.M. they embark; and the wind having shifted a little to the North of the West, and pretty fresh, they fall down the river. Baron Steuben marches for Hoods, where their passage may be checked. He reaches Blands mills in the evening, within 9. miles of Hoods.
Thursd. Jan. 11.
At 8. A.M. the wind due West and strong, they make good their retreat down the river.10
Soon after this, General Phillips having joined Arnold with a reinforcement of 2000. men, they advanced again up to Petersburg, and about the last of April to Manchester. The Governor had remained constantly in and about Richmond, exerting his powers for collecting militia, and providing such means for the defence of the state as its exhausted resources admitted; lodging frequently within 4. 5. and 6. miles of them, generally with only the river between him and them, and without even a centinel.
M. de la Fayette, about this time, arrived at Richmond with some continental troops, with which, and the militia collected, he continued to occupy that place, and the North bank of the river; while Phillips and Arnold held Manchester and the South bank. But Lord Cornwallis, about the Middle of May, joining them with the main Southern army, M. de la Fayette was obliged to retire. The enemy crossed the river, and advanced up into the country about 50. miles, and within 30. miles of Charlottesville, at which place the legislature being to meet on the 24th. of May, the Governor proceeded on the 16th. to Monticello near that place.11 His office was now near expiring, the country under invasion by a powerful army, no services but military of any avail, unprepared by his line of life and education for the command of armies, he believed it right not to stand in the way of talents better fitted than his own to the circumstances under which the country was placed. He herefore himself proposed to his friends in the legislature, that Genl. Nelson, who commanded the militia of the state, should be appointed Governor, believing that the union of the civil and [261] military power in the same hands, at this time would greatly facilitate military measures.12
This was the state of things when, his office having expired on the 2d June, and his successor not yet in place, Colo. Tarlton, with his regiment of horse, was detached by Ld. Cornwallis, to surprize him (supposed to be still governor) and the legislature now sitting in Charlottesville. The Speakers of the two houses, and some other members of the legislature, were lodging with him at Monticello. Tarleton, early in the morning of June 4. when within 10. miles of that place, detached a company of horse to secure him and his guests, and proceeded himself rapidly with his main body to Charlottesville, where he hoped to find the legislature unapprised of his movement.13 Notice of it however had been brought both to Monticello and Charlottesville about sunrise, by a Mr. Jouett from Louisa, who seeing them pass his fathers house in the evening of the 3d. and riding through the night along by-ways, brought the notice. The Speakers, with their Colleagues, returned to Charlottesville, and with the other members of the legislature, had barely time to get out of the way.14
I now sent off my family, to secure them from danger and was myself still at Monticello, making arrangements for my own departure, when Lt. Cristoph. Hudson arrived there at half speed, and informed me the enemy were ascending the hill of Monticello. I departed immediately, and knowing that I should be pursued if I followed the public road, in which too my family would be found, I took my course thro the woods along the mountains and overtook my family at Colo. Coles, dined there, and carried them on to Rockfish after dinner, and the next day to Colo. Hugh Roses in Amherst. I left them there on the 7th. and returned to Monticello. Tarleton had retired after 18. hours stay in Charlottesville. I then rejoined my family at Colo. Roses and proceeded with them to Poplar Forest in Bedford 80. miles S.W. from Monticello. On a ride into the farm about the end of the month, I was thrown from my horse, and disabled from riding on horseback some months. I returned to Monticello July 26. and learning some time after that Mr. George Nicholas, then a young man, just entered into the legislature, proposed to institute some enquiry into my conduct before the legislature, a member from my county vacated his seat, and the county elected me, in his room, that I might vindicate myself on the floor of the house. Thro the intervention of a friend, I obtained from Mr. Nicholas a written note of the charges he proposed [262] to bring forward, and I furnished him in return the heads of the answers I should make. On the day appointed for hearing his charges he withdrew from the house; and no other undertaking to bring them forward, I did it myself in my place, from his paper, answering them seriatim to the house. The members had been witnesses themselves to all the material facts, and passed an unanimous vote of approbation, which may be seen on their journals.15 Mr. Nicholas was an honest and honorable man, and took a conspicuous occasion, many years after, of his own free will, and when the matter was entirely at rest, to retract publicly the erroneous opinions he had been led into on that occasion, and to make just reparation by a candid acknolegement of them.