



[Before 7 October 1780]



To his Excellency Thomas Jefferson Esqr. Governor of Virginia, and the Honble. Members of the Council.
The petition of sundry persons whose Names are hereto Subscribed, most humbly sheweth,
[20]
That your said Petitioners being of the Goochland Militia lately Marchd to Hillsborough in divisions, and with shame and Sorrow acknowledge the disgracefull rout your said Petitioners, with most of the Militia soon after sustaind, but the[y] humbly hope that when plain facts are made known to your Honble Board, it will in some measure take off the Odium your said Petitioners at the time labours under; Being raw and ignorant of discipline and under officers (generally) as undisciplind as your Petitioners, who being Orderd not to fire, untill they had the word, and then to advance with chargd Bayonetts occasiond the Confusion which soon followd. When your said Petitioners arrivd at Hillsborough, destitute of money, a Shirt to shift th[em,] and even Clothes to wear, applyd to their Officers for leave to come in and procure such Supplies as their poor families could furnish, altho such permission was not obtaind, yet with the Connivance of several of their Officers they came in, and with the utmost diligence were returning back, met sundry of their old Companions who said they would not be receivd at Head Quarters, but were deemd Continental Soldiers for Eight Months.
Your said Petitioners having no intention of desertion, then deliverd themselves up to the County Lieutenant, and are now under Marching Orders. They wish not to Repine at their Lott, in performing a Tour of duty in so good a Cause, but most of them being very poor Men, with familys of small Children unable to Labour, must enevitably loose great part of their Stocks, by the shortness of their present Crops. What then must be the distresses of their helpless families the ensuing Year, should they be deemd Soldiers Eight Months longer.
Your Petitioners therefore pray, that your Honourable Board will be Graciously pleasd to take the premisses under your Consideration and remit the additional service, and your Petitioners shall ever pray &c.


David England
John Askew
[Arthur Slaughter?]


Benjamin [Adams?]
Robert George
William Cosby


David Mitchel
Nathan Wingfield
Buucer Carrol


Aaron [Nash?]
Ruben [Slaughter?]
Humphrey Parrish


Thomas [Minton?]
James Busby
John Gilliam


Robert Groom
Eleaser Williams
William Utley




<Peter Walker>


Goochd. Sc.
The Subscribers as soon as they came into said County delivered [21] up themselves to me and are, and seem willing to March immedeatly to Hillsborough.
John Woodson C. Lt. Goochd.
I think the within Pettition reasonable and True.
Jno. Hopkins
Jolley Parrish
John Curd
I have no power to remit the sentence of the law, nor do [I] know any power which can, except the General assembly unless the Commander in chief to the Southward shou[ld] think proper to discharge the petitioners at any certain point of time short of the eight months, which it does not appear probable to me he will do.
Octob. 7. 1780

Th: Jefferson

