




Sir
Madrid 27th. June 1785



I received on the 15th. May the Letter you did me the honor to address me the third of that month and should sooner have replied to it, had I not expected to avail myself of a private conveyance from hence, by which I might write with greater security, than I can do by the Post. It is with the greatest satisfaction that I find you are disposed to cultivate an intercourse, which for the reasons you mention, cannot but contribute to the advantage of the public Service, while it will afford the highest pleasure to myself. It has been long my surprise that Congress hath not instructed those they employ abroad on this head: For this purpose a common cypher should be sent to each of their Ministers and Charg Des Affaires. The actual situation of affairs is such, that I am persuaded Mr. Adams might profit where he is by a knowledge of what passes here and I vice versa. Mr. Jays Letter gives me no general Intelligence. It contains instructions only in what manner to represent to his Christian Majesty the sentiments of Congress on receiving information from me of the nature of Mr. Gardoquis mission. That Gentleman was still at the Havanna the 3d. of May. I inclose you the answer I received to a Letter I wrote the Minister of State on this occasion. No. 1 is the copy of that answer. The Sentiments of this Court to cultivate a good understanding between the two Countries seem to continue. No. 2 furnishes a new proof of his Christian Majestys good will. Since receiving that communication a Letter of which No. 3 is a copy has reached me. It perhaps may not be improper to give a copy of it to Mr. Barclay. I have sent one to Mr. Harrison at Cadiz. No. 4 is a copy of another Letter to me from Barbary. It appears not to [252] have been written by the emperors order, Because it doth not bear the Mark which he generally affixes to his Secretaries Letters. The Author is probably one of those who wish to come in for a share of the presents which they suppose must be made whenever a treaty is concluded. I answer these Correspondents in General terms but not officially.
The new Establishments of the Bank and Philippine Company in part occupy the Attention of this Cabinet. Projects for Canals and improvements of all kinds in all parts of the Spanish part of the Peninsula are the favorite Objects of the Minister, Projects which do honor to his Patriotism, even should circumstances prevent their being compleatly Executed. A war would put an end at once to these Patriotic Plans, and however successful its issue might be, it cannot be supposed, that the advantages derived from it, would compensate for the irreparable loss that for a long series of years, this Country would feel from the check given to its manufactures, commerce and agriculture, which severally may make rapid advances should the same Spirit of improvement continue. As you are in the center of Politics, it may appear presumption in me to dwell in the Slightest manner on the Subject of the present intrigues Jealousies and Alarms which appear to agitate Europe; I cannot however forbear informing you that a few days ago the Charg Des Affaires of the Emperor presented by order of his Court to the Ct. de Florida Blanca a memorial containing, as I am told, severe Strictures on the conduct of the King of Prussia, who is accused in this peice of endeavours to excite jealousies among the Princes of the Empire and other Powers to the disadvantage of the Emperor. My Information comes from a quarter intimately connected with the Court of Vienna and since from others. As it appears from the nature of this peice that it must have been sent to the other Courts of Europe, I shall for particular reasons be glad to be Advised of the time it was received at Versailles. A Small Armament is preparing at Cadiz supposed for Carthagena in America. It consists of one vessel of the Line one frigate and 3 transports on Board of which one regiment and 4 or 500 recruits are to be embarked. It is imagined that the Disputes between this court and that of G.B on the Mosquito shore is the cause of it. Other causes might be assigned. The two nations may bully, but not fight in their present circumstances for such an object. At Least the British Minister here holds a pacific Language and I am further told that Del Campo at London advances [253] somewhat in his negotiations for a commercial Treaty. This to me is doubtful for I know not how a treaty on this point can coincide with the pretentions of G.B and the apparent System of this Court. An article in this System is levelled against the N. foundland Fisheries. Altho the Squadron destined to cruize on the Algerine Coast is ready for Sea as is confidently reported here, there are some who maintain that a peace or Truce is likely to be concluded between this Country and those Pirates. I am of this opinion. It is the interest of this Country and the Ct. de F. B. is too good a Patriot not to pursue steadily what he beleives to be its Interests. He may be sometimes mistaken and who is not? In case the abovementioned Peace or Truce should take place, These Pirates will have the more Leisure to Infest our Commerce which I think will inevitably be the case and therefore Speedy measures ought to be taken to prevent hostilities on their part. As I expect to send off shortly as many of the Books as I have been able to procure agreable to your directions, it will be proper for you to Obtain orders to the officers of the Custom house on the Frontier to let them pass without inspection. The trunk containing them will be addressed to you in your Ministerial Capacity and forwarded to Paris by a Correspondent of mine at Bayonne who will advise you of the Time of its being sent to the Capital. It will be a great satisfaction to me to have the means of giving you without reserve my sentiments on every Subject that may be in the Slightest measure productive of public utility or of personal Satisfaction to you. You will please to inform Mr. Barclay that I have received his Letter with an enclosure of an Ancient Date and that as soon as the hurry of visits and attendance at Court and of feasts and entertainments given on occasion of the Double Marriages will permit me, I shall answer the one and the other in a manner that will be as satisfactory as the nature of the contents will permit me. The heats of Summer here have already burdened me with bile which lowers my Spirits and almost incapacitates me from Business. With compliments to all who do me the honor to remember me I beg you to beleive me with great Respect Your Excellencys Obliged & Obedt. Hble. Sert.,

Wm. Carmichael



Enclosure i
Louis Goublot to Carmichael



Monseigneur
A Sal le 20 may 1785



Jespre qu lpoque prsente votre Excellence aura reu la lettre que jeus lhonneur de lui adresser en datte du 8 avril pass, et je me rfere  son contenu.
[254]
Je me flatte, Monseigneur que vous ne dsaprouverez point la Libert que je prends de vous crire nouvellement pour vous participer que parmi les Frgates Corsaires de Sa Majest lEmpereur de Maroc, lune se trouve actuellement  Lisbonne, deux  Gibraltar et cinq ou Six  Larache.
Du nombre de ces dernires, deux viennent dtre destines pour lAmbassade que le Monarque Africain envoie  Constantinople, lune desquelles est Commande par le mme Arraez Capitaine nomm Akhmet Turki qui prit linfortun Capitaine James Ervin. Le Surplus des frgates qui resteront  Larache sortiront cet t pour croiser.
De ce que je viens dexposer, je ne veux point infrer que lEmpereur de Maroc donne de nouveaux ordres de commettre des hostilits contre les batimens Amricains, mais ce que je puis dire avec assurance, cest que, soit que ce Souverain ne prescrive pas  Ses Marins une ordonnance exacte, ou soit que ceux ci, lorsquils sont en mer, smancipent  faire des prises sans y tre ordonns, il y a toujours  craindre pour les batimens Amricains jusqu ce que le Congres fasse parler directement  lEmpereur de Maroc.
Comme je suppose, Monseigneur, que vous aurez fait passer  son tems des Avis, tant  Marseille que dans dautres ports de la Mditerrane, o il peut se trouver des Batimens Amricains, pour que Leurs Capitaines naviguent avec prcaution, je crois devoir vous reprsenter que si un Capitaine Marchand Amricain toit instruit de la Manoeuvre que les Corsaires Maroccains observent dans un Combat, de la confusion qui regne dans leur commandement sans subordination, de lpouvante qui les saisit lorsquils voient couler le Sang dun des leurs, du manque de munitions et de vivres o ils se trouvent fort souvent, de la disproportion de leurs boulets rlativement au Calibre des Canons &c. &c. le dit Capitaine Amricain, avec six canons seulement, des munitions, et tout au plus vingt hommes dquipage, non seulement, ne se laissera pas prendre par un Corsaire Marroccain, mais il lobligera encore  fuir. Un Corsaire de ce pays-ci ne prendra jamais quun batiment marchand non arm, et lon ne doit point croire en Europe que la Marine de Maroc soit comparable  celle dAlger, ni en discipline, ni en bravoure: voila ce que jose avancer avec certitude.
Je ne sais si votre Excellence recevra avec plaisir ces avis, qui seront plus ou moins importans selon les instructions que lon jugera  propos de donner aux Capitaines Amricains concernant leur navigation dans ces mers-ci, ou selon le retard quil peut encore y avoir avant que lempereur de Maroc recoive des lettres du Congres. Quoiquil en soit, je desire tres fort que ma lettre puisse sortir heureusement de Barbarie et parvenir en toute suret  votre Excellence, qui nignorera pas  quoi je mexpose en lui faisant passer de tels avis, qui demandent tout le secret possible; mais laffection dont je me sens port pour la nouvelle Rpublique, et le Respectueux amour dont je suis pntr pour les Augustes Membres qui la composent me font mpriser tous les dangers et les prils pour lui tmoigner combien je desire de lui tre utile et dtre employ  son Service.
Jai lhonneur dtre avec le plus profond Respect, Monseigneur, De votre Excellence Le tres humble et tres obissant Serviteur

Louis Goublot


[255]

Enclosure ii
Alcaid Driss to Carmichael



Son Excellence
Maroc le 24 avril 1785.



Votre honorable en date 6 fevrier dernier me fut remise le 20 de ce mois dAvril: jeus lhonneur de la communiquer et interpreter le lendemain  S. M. I. mon maitre qui se montroit fort content, disant que ce ntoit que lamour de la paix qui lavoit fait agir, et quil seroit charm de contracter de telle faon avec la nouvelle illustre Republique quelle naura qu sapplaudir de tout ce que sa ditte Mt. veut faire en sa faveur; de faon Cpendant quil vient une personne qualifie expressment de la part du Congrs pour traiter des interets mutuels pour le Bonheur reciproque, et quun Consul reside dans les Etats de Sa Mt. I. suivant la Coutume de toutes les Puissances Europennes.
S. M. I. mon Maitre nest pas moins que lillustre Congrs, pntr de sentiments dignes de la nouvelle Rpublique, il prend tout en consideration, ce fut en Consequence dicelle et de mes instances que S. M. fit rentrer les cinq frgates en croisire contre les batimens Amricains, immediatement apres la prise du Capitaine Ervin, quen outre il avoit publiquement dclar quil navoit point la guerre avec la nouvelle Rpublique et que le dit Capitaine avec son Equipage netoient point esclaves, mais des tres Libres dans ses Etats et ils se trouvent fort bien a Mogador. Je nattende quun moment favorable pour demander a S. M. I. mon maitre la permission de les renvoyer a Cadiz
Joignez a ce prliminaire amical les dispositions favorables de S. M. I. mon maitre, et votre Excellence verra que jai fait tout ce que jai pu en faveur de lillustre Congrs vis  vis un Monarque aussi despotique que lest lEmpereur de Maroc, et cela dans un temps ou il ny avoit absolument personne qui osoit sentremettre en faveur de cette respectable Republique de LAmrique du Nord.
Je desire vivement que le tres illustre Congrs ne tarde pas a terminer une affaire, dont je me ferai un honneur eternel dy avoir contribu, et si les circonstances demandoient un delai pour lanne prochaine, il faudroit au moins une lettre du Congres, munie de son Seaux par laquelle il annonceroit la ditte Ambassade, et quil chargeroit quelquun ad interim aupres de Sa Majt. imple. mon maitre: munie de tels pouvoire joserois me flatter darreter le ressentiment que S. M. imperiale mon maitre pourroit concevoir par un delai au quel il ne sattende point, ainsique les feux soudaines que les Capitaines de Corsaires marocquins ne cessent de fomenter, afin dobtenir la permission de reprendre leur croisiere pour Lanne Lunaire prochaine, cest a dire dans cinq mois dici.
Votre Excellence nignore pas, qua la cour de maroc, comme a tout autre cour, il sy trouvent des Personnes qui cherchent  traverser les Bonnes offices, quun tre qui pense bien y emploit, souvent il faut les dtourner par une gnrosit qui ne convient pas  chaqun, Graces au Destin, jai Su mannier les affaires de faon que jen ai t quitte pour quelques petits presents. Je vous prie enfin dtre persuad que je nomettrai rien pour entretenir la bienveillance de S. M. I. mon maitre a lgard des circonstances actuelles. Assurez en le tres illustre Congrs [256] et croyez moi en particulier avec respectueuse estime, De votre Excellence, Le tres humble et tres obeisst. Serviteur


Alcaid Driss Secr. de S. M. I. de Maroc.



