



[Before 1 November 1776]



To the Honourable, the Delegates and Senators, Representatives of the Common Wealth of Virginia, assembled at the City of Williamsburg,
The Memorial and Petition of the Descenters from the Church of England, and others, in the Counties of Abemarle and Amherst, humbly sheweth,
That your Memorialists have never been on an equal footing with the other good People of this Colony, in respect of religious Priviledge, having been obliged, by Law to contribute to the support of the established Church, while at the same Time they were moved from a Principle of Conscience to support that Church of which they called themselves Members: Yet in as much as this was the Mode of Government, established, either when they came into the Colony, or, being Natives, when they became Descenters from the Church of England, for the sake of good Order they have patiently submitted to their Grievances, continuing to be peacable and Loyal Subjects, always ready and willing to stand up with the foremost, in the support of Government and in the Defence of the just Rights and Property of the Subject.
That, when it became necessary, that the Form of Goverment should be new moddeled, in consequence of our having thrown off our Dependance, on the Crown and Parliament of great Britan, Your Memorialists flattered themselves, that, that Form of Goverment, that would secure just and equal Right to the Subject, would be the Choice of every Individual, both from the Consideration of the Justice, and good Policy, that would be contained in it, and also from the Consideration, that, by the Joind, and strenous Endeavours of every one our Liberty, our all, must be defended against the unjust violators thereof and that therefore all should enjoy equal Priviledge.
That your Memorialists cannot disguise their real Concern to observe that instead hereof, there are many who are still violent for a reestablishment of the Episcopal Church, and to have been informed, that to this End there are sundry Petitions, about to be prefered to the House, signd by the Bulk of the People, Nor can they forbear signifying to this Honourable House, their Since [Sense] of the great Iniquity, contained in the Establishing of any [587] one religious Denomination of People worshiping the same God, and all strugling in the same common Cause, in preference to all others, and that all and every other religious Sectary, should be obliged to contribute to the support of that Church, thus established, when it is with the greatest Difficuly that they can support publick Worship in that Way and manner that they rather choose. Your Memorialists judge however, that they may rest quite easy, on refering it to the known Wisdom, Candour and Integrity of this Honourable House, how far such Petitions should be heard and granted, and also how far such a Mode of Goverment should be established.
Your Memorialists conceieve, that to put every religious Denomination on an equal footing, to be supported by themselves independent one of another, would not only be a reasonable and just Mode of Goverment, but, would certainly have an happy Influence, on the greater Purity of the several Churches; on their more free and friendly Intercourse with each other; on suppressing any thing like Feuds, and Animosities amongst the People, and on attaching all, of every Denomination to Goverment.
Such a Form of Goverment is all that your Memorialists Desire, and what they Pray this Honourable House for, nor can they doubt of obtaining this, or any other reasonable Request from a Body so respectable, whom we trust have the equal Happiness of their Constituents in particular, and of the Common Wealth in general, as their highest Motive.
That all propitious Heaven may inspire this Hon. House with Wisdom equal to the Importance of the Business divolved upon them and that this Common Wealth may become the Invy of the Nations and the Glory of the World, shall ever be the ardent Wish of your Memorialists and humble Petitioners!


Charles Lewis
James Norris
John Wallace


Charles Lewis Junr
Bartlet Davies
James Woods


Geo. Gilmor
Masias Jones
David MWilliams


Jno. Coles
John Woods
John Read


John Marks
Wm. MCord
Nathan Woods


Bennet Henderson
James Read
David Woods


Charles L. Lewis
David Eperson
Henry Kerr


Phil: Mazzei
Robt. MCollock
Saml. Karr.


James Kerr
James Black
Josiah Wallace


David Allen
John Morris
Richd. Pilson


Wm. Irvin
Wm. Wallace
Wm. Pilson


Andrew Wallace
John MCollock
Thomas Wherry


Wm. Shelton
John Allexander
John Jameson


[588]


Saml. Jameson
Thos. Evans
Jessey Shelton


Thomas Craig
Edward Nash
Valentine Shelton


John Craig
Presley Dallens
Geo: Shelton


Thos. Jameson
Wm. Huntson
Robert Shelton


Micajah Via
Wm. Pilson
Will: More


John MCord
Edwd. Johnson
Jas. Mt:gomery


Saml. MCord
Hugh Alexr.
David Mt.gomery


William Woods
Jas: Briget
Wm. Wright


Wm. Tamerlinson
Isaac Harden
Josiah Wood


John Black
Alex. MWilliams
John Wood


John Black
Alexr. Jameson
Richd. Wood


Wm. Ramsey
Wm. Cleveland
John Wood


James Keton
Neal MGleester
James Wood


William Norris
Henry Wood
Peter Martain


Chas. Whitlock
William Eads
Geo: Martain


Wm. Fretwell
John Garland
Chas. Martain


Charles Mills
James Burton
Henry Woody


John Wherry
Archle Forbis
Martain Woody


Wm. Norris Senr.
Wm Forbis
John Woody


Gilbert Karr
Thos. Eads
David Woody


John Haggord
Thos. Norval
John Tomson


John Bailey
Wm. Nibbits
Jas. Tomson


David Henderson
William Nibets Junr.
Wm. Tomson


Thos. Anderson
Thomas Nibbets
James Alexr.


James Woodson
Andrew Nibbets
John Alexr.


Thos. Jerman
Chas. Teat
Andrew Wright


Daniel Maupin
William Teat
Bartlet Eads


Saml. Bocock
James Wright
Wm. FizPatrick


Alexr. MKenzie
James Right Junr.
Robt. Wright


Bana Burnet
Jacob Wright
Saml. Scot


Zac: Colley
Wm. Shilton
Geo: Blain


Wm. Bannel
Saml. Denney
Will: Loveing


John Rogers
John Denney
Wm. Walton


Jno. Williams
Jason Denney
Jno. Johnston


Jno. Davies
Thos. Forton
Mask Leak


Saml. Stockdon
Zack: Forton
John Wharton


David Graves
John Forton
Beza: Maxwell


John Stockdon
William Bayens
Thos. Maxwell


Alexr. Ramsey
John Bayens
Alexr. Blain


John Dallens
Robt. Bayens
Geo: Blain


John Branhem
John Bird Senr.
Thos. Applin


Ben: Davie
Abner Bird
Jas. Lyon


Barnet Branhem
Bartlet Bird
John Dawson


Joseph Anderson




