



Dear Friend
Philada. Jany. 4th. 1784



I heartily thank you for your favour of the 23d. Decr. last and for the Pains you have taken to abridge Monsr. Buffons System of Astronomy. However you may think your Time lost in reading his two whimsical volumes, the little Time you took to give me a summary of his Scheme was certainly not spent in vain. Your Letter found me very un-well and in a great deal of Pain; it drew my attention so, as to smother a dozen Groans at least; a Proof that the Laceration of any Part of the Body does not necessarily produce Pain. The extreme Attention with which the Soul watches every Circumstance that concerns the Body occasions the Sense of Pain. If in the very moment of Torture any external object should present, more interesting to the mind than even the Care of the Body, the Soul will bend all her Powers to this new Object; and the Sense of Pain will cease. This is daily experiencd in small un-interesting Afflictions, such as a slight Tooth-Ach, a trifling Burn &c. When I was in England, I had an excruciating Boil, which was at the Height of Inflamation and Tension; I went, nevertheless to a public Place and heard the Oratorio of the Messiah performed to Admiration. I felt no more the Pain of the Boil. It even broke whilst I was there without my perceiving it. Had I been in my Chamber, I should have cried out with Anguish. May not the Firmness of Martyrs be accounted for on the same Principle? But as to Mr. Buffon. I like his Performance very much. I see your Error. You have read him as some good People read the Revelations of St. John taking every thing in the literal Sense; and I, like some learned Expositors of the said Revelations, will endeavour to give you the true mystical Sense of Monsr. Buffons work.
This great Philosopher has represented the Court of Great Britain by the Sun and that of France by a Comet. France in the Excentricity of her political movements hath at length struck forcibly against Britain and, by the Collision, struck off a Part of her Body, which, being ballanced by the counteracti[ng] Powers of centrifugal and centripetal Force, hath found an Orbit of its own, and rolls a new Planet in the System, called the American Empire. The Analogy is obvious. The Sun being in a fluid State its Surface is much agitated and influenced by the Appearance of a Comet; this points at the Insurrections, mobs and internal Confusion that disturbed England when France formed an alliance with America. [444] The Fragment which the Comet strikes off from the Sun, takes with it a Portion of his atmosphere. So, America, tho independent of G. Britain, has taken with her, her Laws, Customs, Language, Religion &c. which is undoubtedly very figurative of an atmosphere: being an assemblage of heterogenus Particles, expansive, variable, fluctuating and of little Solidity. All this is easily accommodated. The Parallel is striking, but the most difficult Passage is yet to be explained. I mean that respecting the Elephant Travelling Southward as the new Planet cools. But an ingenious Commentator surmounts all Difficulties. I analogize it thusThe Heat or Fire of true Patriotism flowed in the United States of America in the Year 1776, when the Declaration of Independence took placeor in Monsr. Buffons words, when we were struck off from Great Britain. This Heat however, begins gradually to evaporate, the Body cools, especially towards the North-East. The more equatorial Parts containing more matter retain this Heat longer. By the Elephant, which is the greatest of all Beasts, is intended the American Congress, which is the greatest of all political Bodies. Politicians have in vain sought for Reasons sufficient to justify the late movement of Congress to the Southward: Here we see Monsr. Buffon has accounted for this Phnomenon upon demonstrable Principles; with the Eye of a Prophet and the Precision of a Philosopher, he has developd the whole mystery: nothing was wanting but my Commentary, to make the whole obvious to every intelligent mind. I have only sketchd a general Out-line of Exposition; but having put the Clue into your Hand, your Ingenuity will easily investigate the whole, and apply the most minute Parts of Monsr. Buffons solar System to the American Revolution.
Your Daughter was with me on Wednesday Evening last and danced out the old Year in Company with Mr. Rittenhouses Daughters and my Children. A Forte Piano served for a Fidle and I for a Fidler. I was much indisposed the whole Evening, but their mirth alleviated my Pains. I have the Pleasure to inform you that your Girl comes on finely in her Education; but Mr. Simitiere has, with great Sagacity, discovered that she has no Genius, and declares he will leave her at the End of the Month. If he should, I have advised my mother not to pay him the Guinea he will demand; but to tell him that, as you had paid him a Guinea Entrance, with an Expectation that he would instruct your Daughter in Drawing, if he shall think fit to break off the Instruction in the short Time of one Month, without any real Cause for so doing, she cannot think herself justifiable in paying another Guinea without your express 
          [445] Order. He says he is no School-Master, and not obliged to go thro the Drudgery of teaching those who have no Capacity. You will not be disappointed at this, as you know the Man. Your Daughter is well and now here to dine with me. She desires her dutiful Love. My mother also desires her affectionate Regards.
I enclose for your Amusement a Christmas Gambol, in the Literary way.
I shall be happy in corresponding with you if you give me any Encouragement. My Fancy suggests a Thousand whims which die for want of Communication, nor would I communicate them but to one who has Discernment to conceive my Humour and Candour with respect to my Faults and Peculiarities. Such a Friend I believe you to be.
Remember me kindly to Mr. and Mrs. Thompson and to all my friends in Congress, if my unlucky Talents have left me any there.
I am Dear sir Your affectionate friend & very humble servant,

Fras Hopkinson

