



Sir
Hadderells Point Jany. 30th. 1781



Your Excellencys favor by Capt. Blackwell without date together with bills to the amount of One thousand and eight pounds Sterlg., One hundred barrels of flour, four Hhds. of Tobacco, twenty Hhds. of Rum with sundry Articles of clothing, I have had the honor to receive. All which shall be disposd of agreeable to the directions enclosd in your letter.
The following are the rates I have been able to procure for the goods sent from the State. The Bills have been sold without deduction, or on Par. The Tobacco for fifty five shills. Sterlg. pr. Hundred and the flour for thirty shills. Stg. p do. The Rum will be divided agreeable to the abovementiond instructions.
I am sorry to inform you that I cannot with any degree of propriety give the certificate respecting the Arms &c. of the 5th. Regiment, when taken on Continental Establishment, not having recourse to my papers. I beg leave to refer your Excellency to Colo. Josiah Parker of Smithfield, who was at that time Commandant of the Regiment.
I have enclosd the return You desird. The distance of situation between us and the non-commissiond Officers and Privates would not allow me to send you the particular names or to discriminate [482] between the Number of each. What You recieve is the most exact that can be procurd.
You will please to observe that amongst the commissiond Officers mentiond in the return, there are several who bear staff commissions in the line or Regimentssuch are Brigade Inspectors, Pay Masters, Adjutants and Quarter Masters. These Gentlemen besides their posts in the line have had regular appointments to the other Offices and have conformd to their duty.
It is wishd that our supplies were greater, but being convincd of the desire of the state to serve us, We wait for a supply of Tobacco, for which I have receivd permission. I have enclosd an Extract from my letter and the Commandant of Charlestowns Answer. We are sensible of the inconveniency of supplies as expressd in your letter; but We expect the permission enclosd will obviate the difficulty.
I had forgot to mention that I had receivd some Medicine, and intend to have respect to the procuring of some more, if found necessary. You must be convincd from the return that the division of money will be trifling and that the chief dependency of comfort relies upon the arrival of fresh supplies or Tobacco which We are now permitted to receive and dispose of in any Quantity. We hope the length of time since We have been capturd will be considerd and the unavoidable necessity of being under obligations of debt for such things as the climate requires. As to my part, I made it my business to procure credit on my own Account, and distribu[te] to those in need, what Articles their situation or health demanded. But as this Matter is somewhat personal, I would chuse to leave it to the consideration of the State, when it is not requird on business of more importance.
I have the honor to be with great respect, Your mo. obedt. servt.,

Chs. ScottB.G. Virga. Line

