



[ca. 1 Mch.? 1785]



We submit the following passages to the consideration of the Baron De Thulemeyer, collating the English expressions, the French translation and the changes which we think should be made to yeild the true sense.1


English expression2
Passages in the translationwhere the sense seems changed2
Corrections hazarded2


Art. X. shall succeed to their said personal goods
succederont  leurs biens
succederont  leur dits biens personelles


such care shall be taken of the said goods and for so long a time as would be taken of the goods of a native in like case until the lawful owner may take measures for receiving them.
on prendra pendant ce temps les memes soins des biens qui leur sont echus, quon auroit pris en pareille occurrence des biens des natifs du pays:  moins que le proprietaire legitime nait pris des arrangemens pour recueiller lheritage.
on prendra des biens qui leur sont echus les memes soins et pour le meme temps quon auroit pris en pareille occurrence des biens des natifs du pays, jusques  ce que le proprietaire legitime aura pris des arrangemens pour recueillir lheritage.


and where on the death of any person holding real estate within the territories of the one party, such real estate would by the laws of the land descend on a citizen or subject of the other, were he not disqualified by alienage, such subject shall be allowed &c.
et si par la mort de quelque personne possedant des biens-fonds sur le territoire de lune des parties contractantes, les biens- fonds venoient  passer selon les loix du pays  un citoyen ou sujet de lautre partie, celuici, sil est gualifi  aliener les dits biens, obtiendra &c.
et si par la mort de quelque personne possedant des bien-fonds sur le territoire de lune des parties contractantes, les biensfonds viendroient  passer selon les loix du pais  un citoyen ou sujet de lautre partie sil netoit pas inhabilit comme etranger, celui-ci obtiendra &c.


17. or by a pyrate3
ou par un Armateur
ou par un pirate


19. arrested, searched
ni arretes ni saisies
ni arretes, ni visites


23.
et en general tous ceux
we concur in adopting this expression as being more extensive than the original and for a good purpose.


private armed vessels
armateurs
vaisseaux arms en course


[10]


24. in some part of their dominions
omitted
assignera dans leurs territoires


and all others
aux simples soldats
 touts les autres


necessaries
douceurs
we like the word douceurs better than the word necessaries which we had proposed and for which we had therefore rather substitute comforts


26. yeilding the compensation where such nation does the same
accordant la meme compensation quaura et agre pour dautres nations.
en accordant la mme compensation si la concession est conditionelle.


