
[Annapolis, 23 Dec. 1783. Entry in SJL reads: F. Hopkinsonletter to BremnerclavichordspinetteBuffons theoryRittenhs orrery for k. of Fr. Not found, but see Hopkinson to Bremner, 28 Nov. 1783. The reference to Rittenhouses orrery pertains to a suggestion made by TJ the preceding January at a meeting of the American Philosophical Society. On 3 Jan. 1783 TJ attended his first meeting of the Society at the University and presented in the name of the author, the works of the Abbe Fontana; two weeks later he also attended and, On motion by Mr. Jefferson, seconded by Mr. [Joseph] Reed, It was unanimously agreed that an Orrery to be made by Mr. Rittenhouse a citizen of Pennsylvania, be presented by this Society to His Most Christian Majesty; at the latter meeting the Rev. William White, Hopkinson, and Dr. Shiell were appointed a committee to devise ways and means to carry the foregoing resolve into execution. The committee reported on 6 Mch. 1783 that they had conferred with Rittenhouse and that he had agreed to make an orrery for 200. This intention of the Society was communicated to La Luzerne, who informed the committee that he had received a communication intimating his Most Christian Majestys Approbation of the Societys Design  to present him with an Orrery invented and executed by Mr. Rittenhouse; and expressive of his Majestys Intention by his royal Patronage to excite an Emulation between the literary Societies of France and the United States. The committee were instructed by the Society to inform the French minister of the high Sense the Society entertain of the Honor done them by his Majesty, and that they flatter themselves with the Hope of seeing the Work speedily completed. Unhappily, this was an illusory hope and TJs dual intention of showing gratitude to France as an ally and of impressing European scientists with the work of an American whose genius he admired extravagantly came to naught. Two days after TJs present letter to Hopkinson, La Luzerne wrote to [419] Vergennes: M. Rittenhouse, Monseigneur, travaille  son Planetaire, mais avec un peu de lenteur; il est Trsorier de lEtat de Pensylvanie; il en remplit  regret les fonctions peu analogues a ses talens mais necessaires pour le faire vivre. Il ira peut-tre lui-meme en France pour presenter au Roy ce bel ouvrage quand il sera fini.  (minutes of the American Philosophical Society, MS in PPAP, 3, 18 Jan., 6 Mch., 26 Sep. 1783; La Luzerne to Vergennes, 25 Dec. 1783, Arch. Aff. Etr., Corr. Pol., Etats-Unis, XXVI, 2523a copy of the last generously contributed by Howard C. Rice, Jr.). Rittenhouse never completed this orrery and never went to France.]
