



[7 June to 1 August 1776]



Editorial Note
Jeffersons extraordinarily graphic account of the debates and proceedings in Congress during two critical months in the summer of 1776 is perhaps the best single source of information concerning the movement toward independence and the formation of the Articles of Confederation, not even excepting the similar notes made by John Adams (Works, ii, 485502; also JCC, vi, 107183). Nevertheless, its claim to contemporaneity and even to accuracy in respect to the account of the signing of the Declaration of Independence has been challenged by Ford, Hazelton, and other careful scholars. For this reason it is essential that the manuscript and the facts surrounding it be examined in some detail.
The text of the Notes of Proceedings (hereafter referred to as Notes) as here presented was inserted by Jefferson in the manuscript of his Autobiography; all previous editors of Jeffersons papers have printed it with the Autobiography at the place where Jefferson inserted it (TJR, i, 1029; HAW, i, 1235; Ford, i, 1847; l & b, i, 1753). However, it now seems clear that Jeffersons insertion was an afterthought, and it is felt that the Notes would not only serve to illuminate the events of 1776 better but would also be more accurately understood if presented independently.
Jeffersons Autobiography, begun 6 Jan. 1821 and closed, or rather suspended, 29 July 1821, is a MS of 90 leaves, all versos being blank save three; however, Jefferson numbered only the alternate leaves and counted blank versos in his pagination. After he had written the MS and numbered its pages, he inserted the 20-page MS of the Notes. At present this insertion lies between leaves [1920] and 21[22], but Jefferson probably placed it between leaves 21[22] and [2324]. For page [23], which is only half-filled, is not a continuation of page 21 but of the last page of the Notes, and it contains no mention of the Declaration of Independence. It is, therefore, a substitute for a cancelled leaf which must have briefly summarized the proceedings on both the Declaration and the Articles of Confederation, a summarization rendered superfluous by the much more detailed account supplied with the insertion of the [300] Notes. This supposition is further supported by the evident fact that Jefferson made an effort to keep the various events of his Autobiography in proportion (see his statement at the conclusion of the account of the French Revolution, Ford, i, 147). A one-or two-page account of the Declaration would have conformed to the plan of the whole, but the 20-page insertion of the Notes threw it greatly out of scale. Jefferson did not explain this disproportionate amount of detail as he did in the case of his account of the French Revolution; nevertheless, there must have been some compelling cause for his action in deleting a brief account and in substituting therefor an extended one, particularly since it was done after the Autobiography had already covered the events of 1776.
That compulsion would be better understood, perhaps, if it were known at what date the insertion of the Notes was made. The most that can be said, however, is that the insertion followed the completion of the Autobiography. It is a plausible assumption that the insertion took place at the time of the renewed discussions of the authorship and signing of the Declaration of Independence between 1822 and 1825 and that it was caused by the rather partisan efforts to depreciate Jeffersons claim to sole authorship. Obviously Jefferson was not moved to insert the Notes in the Autobiography because of the differences of opinion over the question of the signing of the Declaration on 4 July 1776, for that question had been publicly agitated since 1817 and Jefferson had in 1819 given a detailed account of the matter, basing this account on the Notes (TJ to Samuel A. Wells, 12 May 1819). The same subject came up again when he purchased a copy of the newly published Secret Journals of Congress (see postscript to letter to Wells, added 6 Aug. 1822). If the agitation of the question of the signing on 4 July had not been sufficient cause to induce Jefferson to make the insertion in 1821, when it had been brought to his attention four years earlier, it seems unlikely that the revival of the question in 1822 would have caused him to do it.
But the question of Jeffersons authorship of the Declaration was something that touched his sensitive feelings more deeply. In 1822 at least two Federalist newspapers, the Philadelphia Union and the Federal Republican, sought to deprive Mr. Jefferson of all credit for originality in drawing up the Declaration of Independence (Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, p. 3501). This Jefferson could probably have accepted with equanimity, for he had been subjected to much worse from Federalist newspapers. But the following year at Salem, Mass., Timothy Pickering delivered a Fourth of July oration in which he endeavored to depreciate Jeffersons role as author, employing for that purpose a letter written by John Adams which seemed to support Pickerings views. This brought the matter into public view in a manner which Jefferson could not ignore. He wrote soon afterwards to James Madison, expressing some skepticism concerning the accuracy of Pickerings use of statements by Adams and giving Madison an account of the drafting of the Declaration, basing this account upon written notes, taken by myself at the moment and on the spot (TJ to Madison, 30 [301] Aug. 1823). It seems plausible to assume, in the absence of exact evidence, that this discussion of the question of Jeffersons part in the drafting of the Declaration may have provided the stimulus that caused him to insert the Notes in the Autobiography. The insertion may possibly have occurred then or later, for the question continued to be discussed down to 1825; but there appears no valid reason for assuming that it took place earlier.
The manuscript of the Notes is not the same as written notes, taken at the moment and on the spot; Jefferson may actually have had such original notes when he wrote to Madison. If so, they are not now known to be extant. The difference between these original memoranda and the Notes is explained by a slip of paper pasted onto page 12 of the Notes and bearing five lines on the recto and four on the verso in Jeffersons hand:
the Declaration thus signed on the 4th. on paper was engrossed on parchment, & signed again on the 2d. of Aug. Some erroneous statements of the proceedings on the declaration of independance having got before the public in latter times, Mr. Samuel A. Wells asked explanations of me, which are given in my letter to him of May 12. 19. before and now again referred to. I took notes in my place while these things were going on, and at their close wrote them out in form and with correctness and <this and> from 1. to 7. of the two preceding sheets are the originals then written; as the two following are of the earlier debates on the Confederation, which I took in like manner.
This statement is of first importance for establishing the date and dependability of the Notes, but before its value as evidence can be properly assessed, it becomes necessary to clarify the character of this insertion within an insertion. Obviously the slip was written after 1819. Hazelton (p. 594) is of the opinion that it was penned at, or soon after, the time of writing the letter to Wells (TJ to Wells, 12 May 1819). This is possible, but Jeffersons allusion to that letter (before and now again referred to) indicates that some interval had elapsed. The allusion is not clear, but it is certain that, at the time of writing the slip, Jefferson had made some earlier reference to the letter to Wells. At any rate, there is evidence in the slip itself that it was inserted in the Notes before the Notes were inserted in the Autobiography. This is to be found in the middle part of the final sentence, which originally read this and the two preceding sheets are the originals (the reference to sheets is made clear by the fact that the Notes consisted of five sheets or signatures of four pages each; the slip was attached to page 12 of the middle sheet; hence the correctness of the reference to the two preceding and the two following sheets). However, Jefferson struck out the words this and and interlined the words from 1. to 7. of. It seems plausible to assume from this that the Notes were not paged until this correction was made and that the pagination was inserted to avoid confusion, a confusion which could have been created only by the intermingling of the sheets of the Notes with some other group of sheets such as those of the Autobiography; hence the likelihood that the pagination was made at the time of the insertion and that the slip, therefore, was written originally [302] at some time before the insertion. Another point needs to be noted about the slip: the first sentence, penned in a smaller hand, was obviously added after the slip had been written with the beginning words Some erroneous statements ; Hazelton is of the opinion that this addition was made 6 Aug. 1822 (p. 594), for the very plausible reason that the reference to the signing of the paper copy of the Declaration is to the same effect as the postscript that Jefferson added on that date to his file copy of the letter to Wells of 12 May 1819.
The real significance of the slip, however, lies in Jeffersons categorical statement that I took notes in my place while these things were going on, and at their close wrote them out in form and with correctness and from 1. to 7. of the two proceeding sheets are the originals then written. Ford has thrown grave doubt upon the accuracy of this assertion (I, 47); Hazelton and others have agreed with Fords opinion in more or less degree. At the conclusion of the Notes in his edition, Ford (I, 47) makes this statement: Here end the notes which Jefferson states were taken while these things were going on, and at their close were written out in form and with correctness. Much of their value depends on the date of their writing, but there is nothing to show this, except negative evidence. The sheets were all written at the same time, which makes the writing after Aug. 1, 1776; while the misstatements as to the signing, and as to Dickinsons presence, would seem almost impossible unless greater time even than this had elapsed between the occurrence and the notes. The MS. is, moreover, considerably corrected and interlined, which would hardly be the case if merely a transcript of rough notes. Hazelton agrees with the implication here that in a critical passage Jefferson relied upon memory and with the statement that there is no evidence to show when the Notes were written in form and with correctness (p. 2045, 422, 594). Both agree that the misstatements are in fact misstatements. If this is correct, then Jeffersons assertions in the Notes are indeed open to question. Hence the necessity for examining (1) the opinion that there is no evidence of date attached to the Notes and (2) the misstatements that caused doubt to arise in the first place.
First, as to the question of evidences of date, there is no room for doubt that the Notes were written before 1 June 1783. It is true, as Ford observes, that the MS of the Notes is considerably corrected and interlined. But this fact, far from casting doubt on the contemporary nature of the Notes as Ford implies, is the essential evidence for establishing the terminal date after which the Notes could not possibly have been written. Ford was led to this erroneous inference, no doubt, by a misreading of Jeffersons statement on the slip. That statement does not assert, as Ford seemed to think, that the Notes were merely a transcript of rough notes. On the contrary, Jefferson seems rather explicit in his explanation that the notes taken during the debates were, at the close of the proceedings, employed as the basis for writing them out in form and with correctness, not for the purpose of transcription.
Many of the corrections and interlineations were made before 1 June 1783, when Jefferson sent a copy of the Notes to Madison (see notes [303] following this document); some bear evidence of having been made at the time of the transcription; others indubitably were made much later, perhaps during the years 18191825. In short, we are dealing here with an overlay of corrections and additions precisely similar to that which occurred in the first page of Jeffersons First Draft of the Virginia Constitution and in the Rough draught of the Declaration of Independence. Just as the Third Draft of the former and Adams Copy of the latter provided the dividing line for separating the earlier and the later additions in each case, so the presence of the Madison copy of the Notes provides a dividing line for separating the corrections and additions made prior to 1 June 1783 from the overlay made subsequent to that date. The textual notes given below will point out every example of corrections made after the Madison copy was drawn off; the italicized words in angle brackets in the text of the Notes, representing deletions, will show at a glance what corrections were made prior to 1 June 1783. It may be safely assumed that the Madison copy suffered no such sophistication subsequent to 1783 as did the Notes from which it was taken and which remained in Jeffersons hands.
This terminal date of 1 June 1783 definitely removes the Notes from the suspicion of having been, at least in part, dependent upon an older mans memory. But may we accept Jeffersons statement that the Notes were written in form and with correctness at the close of debates, meaning thereby soon after 1 Aug. 1776? Ford and Hazelton think not, chiefly because of inability to reconcile with accepted views Jeffersons categorical assertion about the signing of the Declaration of Independence on 4 July 1776, an assertion which the general consensus of historical opinion has rejected. Ford expresses no opinion as to the date at which the Notes may have been written. Hazelton thinks that the writing took place after Jefferson retired from Congress, but he does not specify whether this means after he retired in 1776 or in 1784 or indeed at what period after retirement the rewriting of the original notes took place. Though both knew of the existence of the Madison copy and made use of it, neither recognized its importance in establishing a terminal date. Each concluded that Jefferson had written the Notes at a later period than he asserted because of his misstatement about the signing of the Declaration on 4 July. It is noteworthy that, except for this and the implied assertion by Jefferson as to Dickinsons presence in Congress on 4 July, neither impugns Jeffersons testimony as given in the Notes in respect to any other single important statement of fact or opinion. Before examining the criteria by which they measure Jeffersons accuracy on this point, it is worth noting that the Notes, taken as a whole, are so explicit, so detailed, so capable of being checked and verified by other reliable sources, that we must inescapably conclude (as indeed Hazelton does) that the MS was written from notes taken while these things were going on. In view of this, it is evident that the standards by which any part of Jeffersons generally unimpeachable contemporary account are to be challenged must be of equal if not superior validity.
But just how contemporary were the Notes? There is no evidence [304] other than Jeffersons statement on the slip written after 1819 to show that the original notes were put in form at the close of the debates on the Declaration and the Articles of Confederation. But since it is possible to narrow the dates of the Notes to the period from 1 Aug. 1776 to 1 June 1783, the task of attempting to ascertain the accuracy of Jeffersons statement is relatively simplified. The first and most important fact to be observed is that Jefferson fully realized the historic significance of the act of separation from the British Empire and of drafting the justification for that separation as well as stating the political ideals of the new nation. If proof of this were needed it is to be found not only in his entire career, guided as it was by constant reference to the leading principles then stated, but also in the numbers of copies of the Declaration as originally written that he found time to make and send to distant friends during the busy days of July; in the fact that he found time during June and Julytwo of his busiest months in Congressto make such detailed notes of proceedings and debates; in his incorporating the text of his draft of the Declaration in the Notesall evidences of his pride in the authorship of this statement of national ideals; finally, in the care that he took in putting the Notes in form and with correctness, a style which, whether intended for publication or not, could easily have been put to press without further alteration. In 1787 Jefferson wrote of the nine-hour debate on 1 July during which all the powers of the soul had been distended with the magnitude of the object (TJ to the Editor of the Journal de Paris, 29 Aug. 1787). If the magnitude of the object made such an impression on him and if he had intended from the beginning to make full and exact notes of these momentous transactions, what motive could explain his deferring the putting these notes in form? The pressure of business in Congress might have deprived him of the time necessary to make these copies, but he was fully as preoccupied with the affairs of Virginia from Oct. 1776 to the summer of 1781 as he was during July of the former year. During the early part of July 1776 he was arduously engaged in the affairs of the army in Canada and with the debates on the Articles of Confederationfar more so than in the following months when he was preparing to return to Virginiayet this preoccupation did not prevent him from making at least six copies of the Declaration to send to friends during the busy days of early July. Jefferson, as Adams said, was always prompt and explicit in the Congress and throughout life he conducted business, especially paper work, with dispatch and efficiency. It seems plausible to assume, therefore, that, especially during Aug. 1776, Jefferson had as full an opportunity to put his rough notes in form as he had at any other time prior to 1781. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, it would seem reasonable to conclude that Jeffersons statement as to the Notes being put in form at the close of debate should be given much weight, particularly in view of the high degree of trustworthiness of the document as a whole.
But, according to the general view, there is evidence to the contrary: the evidence lies in Jeffersons statement in the Notes that The declaration [305] was reported by the commee., agreed to by the house, and signed by every member present except Mr. Dickinson. This statement, Ford and Hazelton agree, could scarcely have been written except from memory and after a greater interval than Jefferson claimed for the writing of the Notes, since (1) the Declaration of Independence was not signed on 4 July and since (2) Dickinson was not present.
To take up the second item first, it is necessary only to point out the fact (with which Hazelton agrees) that the word present in Jeffersons statement was not in the Madison copy of the Notes, was not in the letter of 1787 to the Editor of the Journal de Paris (which was certainly based on the Notes), and was interlined in the letter to Wells in 1819 and therefore presumably interlined in the Notes at the same time. Up to 1819, then, what Jefferson had said in the Notes was that the Declaration was signed on 4 July by every member except Mr. Dickinson; this is very different from an assertion that Dickinson was or was not present. The fact of Dickinsons presence or absence, then, cannot be regarded as valid evidence for discrediting Jeffersons statement about the date of the Notes. By 1819 Jeffersons interlineation of the word present indubitably caused him to make from memory what Ford called a misstatement; but we are concerned here with plausible or provable misstatements in the Notes as the text stood prior to 1 June 1783, not thereafter.
Yet there remain two most troublesome items in Jeffersons statement; first, that the Declaration was signed 4 July; second, that it was signed by every member. Again to consider the second point first, did Jefferson mean every member who was duly elected and actually serving in Congress at the time? Did he mean the same members who signed the engrossed parchment copy of the Declaration on 2 Aug.? Hazelton has accumulated a vast amount of information from many sources tending to show where each member was on 4 July, what his status was, whether or not it was possible for him to have signed on that day, and indicating which of those who signed the engrossed copy on 2 Aug. might have or could not have signed on the earlier date (Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, p. 193219, 495543). The result is inconclusive. It only establishes, with some doubtful exceptions, a list of members who could have signed a copy of the Declaration on 4 July. In the absence of such a copy dated or datable on 4 July we cannot know precisely what members Jefferson had in mind, whether those legally qualified or those actually present. The question is a baffling one in any case and is made more so by the situation of the New York delegates, who were so bound by instructions that they could not vote on the question on 2 July and who, though present, could not have voted for or signed the Declaration on 4 July. Jefferson in 1819 got around this major difficulty by saying that, when the New York instructions were changed, the New York delegates signed on 15 July. This statement has the appearance of being based on the transactions reported in the Journals of Congress on that day, where, of course, no mention is made of signing though the authorization of the New York Convention for their delegates to concert in the act of independence was presented [306] (JCC, v, 560; TJ to Wells, 12 May 1819). Nevertheless, a copy of the Journals of Congress (Philadelphia: Aitken, 1777) in the New York Public Library contains a marginal note in the handwriting of Charles Thomson listing the names of four New York delegates, and opposite these names is the following: signed July 15. This marginal note was obviously written late in Thomsons life (Hazelton, p. 2078), but it was the considered statement of the usually reliable Secretary of Congress.
Finally, was the Declaration signed on 4 July? The question appears rhetorical in view of the general consensus of historical opinion that a negative answer is the only valid one. That opinion is supported by impressive reasons, which may be summarized as follows: (1) neither the Rough Journal, the Corrected Journal, nor the Secret Journal of Congress, which were the only ones kept by Thomson at that time, contains any mention of a signing; (2) the printed broadside of the Declaration wafered into the Rough Journal contains no names except those of Hancock and Thomson, both printed; (3) no signed copy dated or datable on 4 July is known to be in existence; (4) on 9 July 1776 John Adams wrote that As soon as an American Seal is prepared, I conjecture the Declaration will be subscribed by all the members; (5) Elbridge Gerry wrote on 21 July 1776: Pray subscribe for me the Declaration of Independence if the same is to be signed as proposed; (6) the New York delegates were not authorized to sign on 4 July and could not have done so; (7) no contemporary letters are known to be extant by members of Congress stating categorically that a copy of the Declaration was signed on that date; (8) had such a signing taken place, it is difficult to conceive of the neglect and disappearance of such a cherished document, particularly in view of such expressions as those in the letters of Adams and Gerry indicating a desire to transmit to posterity signal evidence of assent to the great decision; (9) the Journals of Congress for 4 July merely require that the Declaration be authenticated and printed, whereas the entry for 19 July requires that the Declaration be fairly engrossed on parchment  and  signed by every member of Congress (Hazelton, Declaration of Independence, p. 193219, 495543; Burnett, Letters of Members, I, p. 52832; Charles Warren, Fourth of July Myths, WMQ, 3d ser., ii [1945], 2428).
These impressive reasons are all but overwhelming proof that Jefferson was mistaken. Yet it must be observed that every single one of these proofs is merely negative. No member of Congress ever stated in so many words that a Declaration was not signed on 4 July, except for the statement of Thomas McKean in 1813. But McKeans account was made from memory, is charged with a number of glaring errors in other respects, and cannot be compared with the general accuracy of Jeffersons Notes.
Opposed to these negative reasons there is only Jeffersons statement in the Notes, though in later years both Franklin and Adams (the latter repeatedly; see Burnett, Letters of Members, I, p. 531) did casually refer to the signing of the Declaration on 4 July, references which must [307] not be regarded, however, as considered comments addressed to the specific question. Hazelton, recognizing the high degree of accuracy of the Notes considered as a whole, resolved the difficulty by assuming that the words signed by every member may not have been intended by Jefferson to be controlled by the words in the evening of the last (4 July) and that, putting his rough notes in form at a later date and certainly after the signing on 2 Aug., Jefferson may merely have intended his brief summary of these proceedings to apply to the whole process from the adoption on 4 July to the signing on 2 Aug. This seems a valid and plausible interpretation.
But is it the only one? We now know that the Report of the Committee of Five of 28 June, submitting the text of the Declaration to Congress, has disappeared (Boyd, Declaration of Independence, 1945, p. 401). It is at least possible to suppose that this copy may have borne the signatures of those who were in Congress on 4 July and even of those delegates from New York on or after 15 July. The fact of the disappearance of this copy of the Declaration of Independence certainly invalidates one of the strongest of the negative reasons given above, namely, that if a copy had been signed on 4 July great care would no doubt have been taken to preserve it (Burnett, Letters of Members, I, p. 531). On the contrary, it may be that the strong desire among members of Congress to sign the document, the very formal engrossing and signing on 2 Aug., and the existence of the official parchment copy bearing signatures may be advanced as reasons for both an informal signing on 4 July and for the disposal of a copy which, in respect to the number of signatures, was at variance with the engrossed and authorized copy. It is also possible to interpret the statements of Adams and Gerry as meaning that there had been an informal signing on 4 July; that some, perhaps for legal reasons or because of absence, had not signed; that it was therefore proposed to do the thing with more formality and hence the Declaration, by order of Congress, was to be engrossed and signed; and that Adams believed all the members would sign such a copy and Gerry, being absent, hoped someone would do it for him. For similar reasons the difference between the entries in the Journal of Congress of 4 July and 19 July can be plausibly explained, the former omitting any mention of signing perhaps because some had not, for one reason or another, desired such a personal record of treason; and the latter, by action of Congress, requiring members to sign. A significant fact which has been overlooked in previous discussions of this matter is that the final paragraph of the Declaration makes signing almost obligatory: We, therefore  mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honour was a solemn pledge which almost by definition required the formality of individual signatures. When these words were approved on 4 July the several members must have understood this to be so. The fact that the order to sign an engrossed copy was delayed until 19 July may be explained by the situation of the New York delegation and does not exclude the possibility of the signing of a paper copy on 4 July. It is also important to observe that, in at least one notable instance, a formal document was signed in more than one form [308] by the members; the engrossed Association of 1774 was signed by the several members and ordered to be printed; after which at least two and perhaps more of the printed copies were signed. These two copies are in NN and PHi; the copy in NN reveals the fact that the signing of the engrossed copy and of the printed copy resembled in certain respects the confused signing of the Declaration of IndependenceHenry and Pendleton signed the engrossed copy but not the printed; six members signed the latter but not the former; and Rodney was absent at the original signing of the engrossed copy but his name was written in by his order (JCC, I, 801). It is, therefore, plausible to assume that a similar procedure may have resulted in July 1776that is, the signing of a paper copy on 4 July and the signing of an engrossed copy later.
Finally, it should be pointed out that Jeffersons Notes were written at a much earlier date than has been generally supposed; neither Ford, Hazelton, nor Burnett points out that the Notes were written before 1783 or admits the probability that Jefferson may have been correct in stating that they were put in form and with correctness at the end of the debates. If, as is highly probable, Jefferson wrote the Notes in the late summer or early autumn of 1776, greater weight than has hitherto been accorded must be attached to his statement that in the evening of the last  the declaration was  signed by every member. Even so, the interpretation placed by Hazelton on these words would still be plausible and may indeed be the correct answer to the vexed question.
Nevertheless, on the basis of evidence thus far advancedall of it negative and some of it demonstrably untenablethe question cannot be regarded as closed. On this great issue of independence, in which all the powers of the soul had been distended with the magnitude of the object, and on the precise details of its final resolution, no one was more acutely interested than Jefferson, and none recorded the procedure with such fullness and exactness. His testimony should not be discarded except on the basis of irrefragable proof of a positive nature. This has not yet been brought forth.
The text of this document has been reproduced with literal fidelity. All square brackets in the printed text are in the MS.
bibliographical note
The principal discussions of the question of the signing on 4 July 1776 are the following, arranged chronologically: Mellen Chamberlain, The Alleged Signing of the Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776, Mass. Hist. Soc., Procs., 2d ser., I (18841885), 27298; P. L. Ford, Writings of Thomas Jefferson, i (1892), 289; Herbert Friedenwald, The Declaration of Independence (1904), ch. vi; John H. Hazelton, The Declaration of Independence (1906), passim; E. C. Burnett, Letters of Members of the Continental Congress, i (1921), p. 52838; Charles Warren, Fourth of July Myths, WMQ, 3d ser., ii (1945), 2428.
[309]
