



Dear Sir
Febry 21st 1772.



I congratulate You, & the World with Us, on our Restoration to a temperate Zone: for, in Truth, We have had a kind of a Greenland Winter. And, for my own Part, I own to You, I now have a much stronger Idea of the Nature of a Winter passd in a Cave, than I could ever have learnd from Books alone. I sometimes almost regretted, We could not become quite torpid, & sleep out the whole dreary Season, as snakes & some other Animals are said to do: or that, as, like Bears, we were shut up in our Dens, we could not, like Them also, live without Fire, & by sucking our Paws: for I had some Cause to imagine, if the Weather had held much longer, We should have had some Temptation to try.1
To What I have heretofore said on the Subject of these Accounts, I have little now to add; unless, I should beg Leave to suggest to You, by way of diminishing in Some Sort their enormous Amount, that they take in a Period of Eighteen Months, at the least& that They are in a Currency so much worse than yours.2 Comparing Him with the Youths around Him, He really seemd frugal; &, as far as I knew, never indulged in any expence that I could have supposd You would have had him restraind in. I knew You expected Him to make such an Appearance as He did, & keep such Company as He did: I knew
[17]
not of the twenty pounds, & am indeed somewhat surprizd at it: how it has been spent I know not. I have just enquird of Him, & can only hear that He bought Oranges & Pine-Apples &c., & gave away a Ticket or two. But, as This is by no means a satisfactory Acct, I have ordered Him to write to You about it; & if He cannot account for it, at least to apologise to You for his Remissness. I hope it was rather trifled & fooled away, than spent in a more blameable manner; which I think could hardly have been without my Knowledge. And, a very few venial Peccadillos excepted, I have little of this Sort to charge Him with. The boarding a Person is not, I should imagine, to be considered as finding Him just such a Quantity of Provisions &c. In Fraziers Case, it was his Livelihood, & a handsome one it is to Him. He considers his House-Rent, & all his own Attendance, Servants, & a long et cetera. My Charge was governed by His, which, knowing my Board to be so much better, I thought a sufficient Warrant for Me. I never aimd to make a Living by taking Boarders: in Virginia, I am persuaded I lost by it. You will, however, be so good as consider, that no Man can, even with the most easy & manageable Boarder, be quite so easy in his Family, as without Them& something shoud be allowd for the Inconvenience He puts himself to. I do, however, agree with You that 25 a year for a Boy in a Kitchen, is an extravagant Charge: but, I suppose, it is considered as making some amends for other Disadvantagesat least, this was the Apology Frazier made to Me.3
I observe the Errors You have pointed out: in answer to which, all I can say is, that I well know I paid the Money to the Man, at the Time I have charged it; & This I am the surer of, as Mr Custis also remembers it. Gassoway was represented to Me as a Man who had once seen better days, & deserving of Compassion: He was exceedingly needy, & constantly sending to Me for Money. How it has happened that He charged these Sums over again, & that I overlookd Them I cannot account for, till I see Mr Jacques, who was so obliging as to take the trouble of settling with Him for Me. I will, however, have it rectifyd, & accordingly, I have already given You Credit for it in my Book.4
I find much Trouble & Vexation in this said Country about this Article of Exchange; &, hitherto, have generally lost by it. They seem to have no standard, nor fixd Regulation, as with You. I enquird of some of the principal Annaps & Baltimore
[18]
Merchts before I wrote to You; but, I will enquire again; & if Bills either have been, or shall be, Either in This or the next Month, sold at 60 Ct, I will allow it. Some Allowance Yomutilated is to be made for the Medium thro which one generally receivmutilatedgence of this Sort: there are always a few degrees difference betwemutilateder & a Seller.5
I fear, it will be impracticable to lay in Provender &c. for mutilated Horses in this Neighbourhood; as I can hire but one Stable, & that a mutilated most wretched one. This Article, however, cannot possibly hereafter mutilated be so heavy a one as it has beennor, indeed, I hope, any other.
Ld B: is certainly dead; but, I believe it is still unknown mutilated Will is. It had not been sent to Engld from Naples where He dymutilated the last Letters I saw or heard of came away. Every Thing, howevmutilated known, is in favour of Govr Eden. At all Events, I guess, He mutilated have a fight for it: & I join with You in wishing that every mutilated may be as much to his Advantage, as I shoud fancy it is, that mutilated possession. The chief Difficulty seems to be, whether the Proprietary mutilated or was not entaild; & so, whether willable or not. If this Doubt mutilatedainly be answerd in the Affirmative, I believe Mr Eden has little mutilated being Proprietor.6 I have not seen Him this month, or upwards mutilated of trying to get thither next week, when I shall not fail to remember mutilated to Him. Our Assembly, I hear, on Acct of this desperate mutilated is prorogued till late in March. Shoud I hear any thing that I can mutilated it woud be agreeable to You to hear of, I will write to You in Wmsburg mutilated I wish You a pleasant & agreeable Sojournment. I am, most truly, Dr Sir Yrs &c.

Jonan Boucher


I send back the acctsas I can do without them& tho I wishd to have had Rects under Them, yet, I fancy, my general Rect may do.7
Be so good as to take the trouble of two or three Lrs to drop in your way down.8

