



Sir
Lebanon [Conn.] 6th Novemr 1775



I have received your favour of the 29th Octo. ulto Wherein you mention the case of Dr Cheney commissioned from hence a Physitian and Surgeon which you are persuaded to have been obtained by some misrepresentation. Indeed I was not apprized of any misconduct or bad behaviour of hisIf he is guilty of any such Crime, hope he may be convicted & discharged.
I will give a detail of his case as it lay before me and my CouncilI had no personal knowledge of the Surgeon or his Mates, Appointed for the third Regiment raised in this Colony, nor that either of them was returned until the 13th of SeptrI received a Letter from Nath. Wales Esqr. wherein he says, I have this minute received a Letter from Colo. Storrs informing me that Dr Cheney has left the Army, and that Regiment have no Doctor but Dr Spaulding who is not esteemed very highly as a Physitian, whatever he may be of a Surgeon. Colo. Storrs urges extream hard to have one sent equal to Dr Cheney, or that Dr Cheney may be sent back.
[320]
Thereupon I immediately sent for the Doctor, he came to me, I enquired the reason of his leaving the service, he let me know there was a misunderstanding between him and Dr Spauldingthat He therefore asked the favour of Your Excellency to grant him a dismission, which you had doneand he did not incline to return under Dr Spaulding1I discoursed with him concerning the Sickness, the manner of treating & providing for the Sick, and other affairs of the Army: He did not express one word in disparagement of any or either of the General Officers, or of any one else, excepting the reasons he gave of Dr Spaulding and his own disagreement. He appeared to me a sensible, prudent man. I dismissed him for that Time. Hearing of Dr Turners return to Norwich, I sent a request to him, to let me see him before his return to the Army:2 which was principally from concern for the uneasiness which happened between those two Physitians and the representation of the unskilfulness of him who remained with the RegimentHe came, and we discoursed on the subject, and I found, that he did not look on Dr Spaulding to be skilled in PhysickThat He served an apprentiship with a Surgeon, who made little or no profession on PhysickDr Turner expressed his apprehension that Dr Spaulding had made no great proficiency in SurgeryThis information increased my concern, as I was told the other Mate was young and unexperienced.3 At the next meeting of my Council I laid the case before them, called for Dr Cheney, conferred with him, proposed his returnHe remained dissatisfied with the treatment he met from Dr Spaulding.
We thought ourselves warranted, from Colo. Storrss Letter, and Dr Turners information, to look on that Regiment not sutably furnished with skilful Physitians and Surgeons. We urged Dr Cheney to Return, and gave him a new Commission for that purpose4I cannot help suspecting an insidious design against him by his competitor, as I apprehend, Dr Spaulding may be calledBut doubt not your Caution That this Case and its circumstances, may be impartially examinedSince my beginning to write, I received from Mr Wales, who was at Your conference, an Extract from Colo. Storrs Letter to himwhich is enclosed.5
I have received various applications for the advancement of
[321]
officers and filling Vacancieswhich I have declined save in the case of Capt. Dyer and Lt Huntington,6 which I perceive was attended with difficultyThere is an application made to me by Lt Moses Cleveland, who served under Captain Perrit of the 7th Regiment, while Stiled a Company of Rangers the latter received a Commission from hence in Julythis subaltern who served with him, not being notified to us, was neglectedhe remained in the Army, turned out when needed, is desirous of continuing in the Service. If he is found qualified for a Commission, and vacancy happens, he will meet your Favour.7
In a Letter from Majr General Schuyler dated 31st of August ult.He says I have ordered the Lead I can spare to Albany, with directions to forward it by the most direct road to General Washington, that you may not have any unnecessary troubleHave mentioned it in my last to himand also wrote to Commissary Phelps at Albany concerning it.8
The Commissary General continues mending, but it is Slowlyhe hath rid out in a Chaise about a Mile last Weekhe hopes to be with Army soon. I am with great Truth and Regard Sir Your most Obedient humble Servant

Jonth. Trumbull

