



Sir
Williamsburg Novr 16th 1756



Yr Letter of the 9th I recd with a Report of Yr Journey along our FrontiersThe abuses mentiond in Yrs I have been made acquainted with from several Hands, but I expected You woud have been more particular in regard to the Officers neglecting their Duty, & the different Forts not being properly garrisond
[25]
with Men, nay witht their Officers: this vauge1 Report makes it impossible for me to call on the DelinquentsI agree the Militia Law is very deficient, & I hope the next Assembly will make proper Amendments.
The Charges attending the Militia of Augusta is monstrous, & I believe a great Imposition on the Country; I have sent up Money & orderd a strict Scrutiny to be made into each Officers Acct & the actual Service done by their Companies2I pity the poor Inhabitants; Majr Andw Lewis has my Orders to bring the Militia into better Order.3
The establishing of Regulars woud be very agreeable to me, but where are the Men to be got? when You have not been able in a twelve Mo. to compleat Yr RegmtCommissions granted to Rangers upon producing Subscription was only to those that went Volunteers witht Pay, the others were by proper Recommendations.
I have repeatedly wrote Lord Loudoun the Necessity of an Offensive War, & an Expedition to the Ohio with the Assistance of our neighbouring Colonies but no Answer, I hope to see him here this Winter. I am of Opinion the string of Forts proposd is only weakening our Strength, & will be a poor Defence to our FrontiersI hope You will keep the Inds. properly employdMajr Lewis has Orders to send up the Cherokees4You seem to Attribute Neglect in me, in not having proper Conductors, The Charge is unmannerly, as I did what I thot proper, tho disappointed by the villanous Traders. You have a Quantity of Indn Goods at Fort Cumberland, for Your distributing among the Indians as You see proper; & Majr Lewis will send You some Indn Guns for the Catawbas.
There is no Exception in the Act of Assembly giving Premiums for ScalpsCt. Spotswood is paid for the one he sent down, the Method of paying them is by Law, & must be adhered to, or can I see much Inconveniency in it.5
I cannot propose any means to replace the Drafts I wish You coud engage them to listYou know how far short the Officers have been of complying with their Promises when CommissiondYou have a Right to agree with the Workmen employd on any Public Works.
If You had sent down the Amo. of the Money due for the Servants enlisted, I woud have given a Warrant for the Money
[26]
Its probable I might have refusd Paymt to the Masters of some of the Servants enlisted, for want of Certificate, but never said You did not act properly in enlistg thembut surely You cannot thaink I coud order paymt witht an Acct from You.
Mr Walker when last here determind to continue Comissary, with the Assistance of his Deputy one Mr Rutherfurd, he then had some Money, & Ct. Mercer brings more for that Service6You mention Yr having made choice of a Person for that Employ, witht sending his Name for my Approbation, if Walker declines, which is irregular & I cannot consent to it: The same in regard to a Chaplain, You shoud know that its necessary his Qualificat. & the Bishops Letter of Licence shoud be producd to the Commissary, & Self, but this Person is also nameless.7
I recd the Opinion of the Council of War in regard to Fort Cumberland,8 as it was an Affair of great Consequence I calld the Council for their Advice, & I inclose You my & their Sentiments thereonIn consequence thereof I hereby order You imediately to march one hundred Men, to Fort Cumberland from the Forces You have at Winchester, which Capt. Mercer says are 160 listed Men; you are to remain at Fort Cumberland, & make the Place as strong as You can in Case of an Attack. You are to send out Parties from the Fort to observe the Motions of the Enemy if they shoud march over the Allegany Mounts.
Any Stores at the Fort not absolutely necessary for its Defence, You are to send them to Winchester.
You are to order one of Your subaltern Officers (on whom You can confide) to Command at Winchester, & to oversee the finishing of the Fort building at that Place.
These Orders I expect You will give due obedience to I am with RespectSir Your most humble Servant

Robt Dinwiddie


P.S. I have sent Copy of the Council of Wars Proceedings to Lord Loudoun.

