



May it please your Excellency
New York Novr 27. 1775



I arrivd here last saturday morning1 and immediately made inquiry whether Colo. Read had done any thing in the buissness with which he was chargdI found his Stay had been short during which time the Committee that sit during the recess of Congress could not be gotten together so that he went away without being able to forward the matterThe Committee met Yesterday and after having considerd of your Excellencys Letter to them2 Colo. McDougal waited upon me & gave such reasons for not complying with the requisition for the heavy Cannon as would not be prudent to put on paper, he has promisd me that he will use his utmost influence in the Congress which meets tomorrow & has no doubt of Success that 12 exceeding good Iron 4 pounders with a Quantity of shells & shot shall be directly sent to Camp & also he has promisd the Loan of 2 fine brass six-pounders cast in a foundery in this City3they have finishd sixI very sincerely wish Your Excellency had been acquainted with this Circumstance & chargd me with a commission to have had a number cast for the Campthey turn out cheaper than the ones imported from Engld these cost 3/9 N.Y.  lb.the English 2/6 sterg  lb.they weigh About 600 lb. a peice.
If Sir you should think proper to have some done & will give Orders to Colo. McDougal or some other Gentleman of this Citythe foundery will execute one in two days after he Shall receive the ordersand so any number in proportionhe also can cast brass MortarsColo. McDougal has promisd me that those articles shall be forwarded to the Camp with the utmost expedition4You will please sir to give Orders to Col. Burbeck to get light field Carriages & appurtanances made for these Guns.
I shall set out by land tomorow morning for Ticonderoga & proceed with the utmost dispatch as knowing our whole dependance for heavy cannon will be from that partperhaps by my return to Camp the reasons which now operate against my getg them here may then cease to exist. I am most Resp[e]ctfully Your Excellencys Most Ob. & Most Humble Servant

Henry Knox

