



[Winchester, c.48 May 1758]



The Reasons given by Capt. Robt McKenzie and Ensign Woodford for acquainting Capt. Thomas Waggener that they would not Rank with Lieut. Peter Steenbergen of the Virginia Regiment under the Command of George Washington Esqr. In Presence of


Lieut. Colo.
Stephen


Lieutenants
Stewart



Campbell



Buckner



Hubbard



Smith



Roy


Ensign
Duncanson


Ensign Woodford assigns the following Reasons for Refusing to Rank with Lieutenant Steenbergen.1
1stThat Lieutenant Steenbergen had in his hands a Sum of Money belonging to one Sullivan, who was indebted on Bond to Andrew Byerly. Upon Byerlys applying to Mr Steenbergen for the money he Refusd to pay it unless he would make him an acknoledgement of forty shillings, which he accordingly was obliged to do before he could get the Money out of Mr Steenbergens hands, which occasiond a Report to be spred among the Country People much to the disadvantage of the Officers in General.
2dThat he has keept a Suttleing Shop ever since he commanded at Powerss Mill, and deliverd Rum in small quantitys at the Rate of 10/ pr Gallon.2
3dThat he has acted as a Deputy Commissary under the Contractor,3 which has interfierd with his Duty as an Officer, and subjected him to many Insults from the Country People, inconsistant with the Character of an Officer.
[163]
4thWhen he was taxed with these Actions as being below the Dignity of an Officer, he made answer that he made more money by so doing than by his Commission, & that he would take the first opportunity of throwing it up, and make application to be a Commissary.
Capt. McKenzies Reason for not Ranking with Lieut. Steenbergen, owing to the above Accounts given to him by Capt. Waggener Ensign Woodford &c. and being a Witness to some particulars not mentiond.
The Gentlemen appointed have duly attended to the Weight of the above Reasons; and considered the Tenor of Lieut. Steenbergens behaviour since he has been in the Regiment. & Are of oppinion that the Officers of the Corp have sufficient Reason to deney Ranking with him.4

Adam Stephen

