



May it please your Excellency
Norwich [Conn.] 7th Augt 1775



We the Committe of Correspondence for the Town of Norwich Think it our indespensable Duty to Accquaint your Excellency of a Matter we think may possibly be of the utmost importance at this most Critical Juncture of affairs & hope the occasion of our Writing will Sufficiently apologize for the Liberty, we (tho. Strangers) have TakenYesterday Morning this Town was alarmed with an Acct of Eigh[t] Ships one Snow Two or three Brigs & Some other Vessels appearing of N. London Harbour three of Which Were Men of Warra Large Number of Men were Soon Collected under arms & Repaird to our Landing N. London Groton &C. when the Ships were Some time in the afternoon. Most of them Came too of the West End of Fishers island but So as to Cut off Communication between these & the MainDuncan Stewart Esqr. Collector for the Port of N. London. by permission of the Committe of that Town Went over in a Boat to Gain Intelligence Last Evening. but was prevented Returning until this afternoonWhen he Was brought back & he with the Boatman Who Carried him over informe[d] they had Taken of That Island about Two thousand Sheep & One hundred & fifty head of Cattleindeed all the Cattle Sheep & hogs upon the Island Except a Number of Milch CowsThat they had also Taken a Sloop Outward bound from N. Haven with Thirty Six Head of Oxen all which will Probably be immediately forwarded to Boston1We Can only Say we Wish Some Method might be devisd to Intercept them in Boston Bay before their Arival. There is undoubtedly a Number of Schooners & Boats at Plymouth which might be improvd for above purposeThe Bearer Capt. Samuel Wheat2 Came from New London this afternoon he is a Gentlemen on Whose intelligence you may Rely & to whoom we Refer you for farther particulars Relative to this or any other Matter. he Goes on Purpose to accquaint your Excelleny of this matterwe are not without apprehensions they will Endeavour to Take off more Stock from the Neighbouring Island, Which We fear will not be in our power to prevent3We have not been without Fears Something of this kind might happen & Last Week ordered
[263]
the Commisary here to purchase all the fatt oxen & Sheep on Fishers island which was done & Brot of Last Friday viz. Fifteen Fatt Oxen & 100 Sheep we have only Time to add we are with Greatest Esteem Your Excellencys Mt Obed. Hbl. svts



Christr Leffingwell4

Comtee


Wm Hubbard



