



Dr Sir,
Mount Vernon Jany 18th 1775.



The Draft on the other side, shews the Interest that four of us have in the Patent that was granted to you and others, for 7894 Acres of Land on the Great Kanhawa: But as Colo. Muse & I, had another Patent adjoining this, granted to us, and as it was more convenient to us both, to have our Lands in a body, than in detachd pieces we agreed upon an Excha.so that the 2000 acres I am to have of you, will be added to his own hundd & makes his Intt in the Patent of 7894 acres 2100. He having lately wrote to me to have a division of this Tract, I informd him that I knew of no method of doing this soon, or indeed better, than by Numbering 3 Tickets, & drawing for themThe person drawing No. 1 to have his quantity of Land (be it more or less) laid off at the upper end of the Tract, as by the supposd Line ABthe Person drawing No. 2 to have his next, as by the other supposed Line CDand the third No. to take his quantity at the lower end.1 As I know of no difference in the quality of the Land; and if there was, each person havg an equal chance to get it, I could not think of any better methodColo. Muse and the Doctr both agree to this, and if you consent, and will empower
[239]
Colo. Peyton, or some other at Williamsburg, to draw for you, I will desire the Doctr to do the same2by which means we can ascertain the part of the Tract where each Persons Lott is to bedivide it on the Plot, giving each man his due quantity, & have a partition Deed drawn ready for ExecutionThe Lines may be run and Marked at any time thereafterbut for fear of death the partition Deed should not be delayedI mention this method as the best expedient I can think of. if you approve of it, please to write me as soon as possible, that I may have time to send to Doctr Craik to request his appointment of some person in Williamsburg to act for him before I set of for that place which I expect will happen about the 12th day of Next Month. I remain Dr Sir Yr Most Obedt Servt

Go: Washington

