



Dear Sir
New York May 3d 1776.



I received Your Favor of the 27th Ulto Yesterday Evening with Its several Enclosures, & in Part Answer thereto refer You to mine of the 29th which probably will have come to Hand ere now, But lest any Accident has prevented It, I will again inform You that in Obedience to an Order of Congress I have detached six more Regiments under General Sullivan in Addition to those with General Thompson, to reinforce our Army in Canada, All of which except a few Companies are embarked, And as the Situation of our Affairs in that Quarter is not so promissing as we coud wish, & an Early Arrival of them may be of the most infinite Advantage to Us, I shall repeat my Request & in full Confidence [trust]1 that You will do Every Thing in Your Power to hasten their March. I have sent forward 60 Barrels of Powder, which is all that can be spared from hence at this Time, which I hope will arrive safe. The Commissary I have been importunate with, He tells Me Eight hundred Barrels of Pork are gone to Albany & that he Every Day expects a further Quantity from Connecticut which he will order to You as soon as It comes, without stopping here. You will also receive three Boxes
[192]
of Money said to Contain 300,000 Dollars, which from My Letter from Congress, accompanying It, are for Canada, Yours probably will be more particular,2 But I should think My Dear Sir, If the whole will not be more than sufficient to pay the Troops & the Claims there, Tho some of It might be Intended for You, That It will be adviseable to send It forward, You will have It in Your Power to get a further Supply before long, to satisfye Your Engagements, those in Canada, Either with our Men, or Others, Shoud not remain unpaid at this Critical & Interresting Period. You however3 will be better able to Judge of what should be done in this Instance than I possibly can. With Respect to your Military Chest when replenished, I see no Impropriety in your giving Warrants as usual, It seems to be Necessary & of Consequence must have my Approbation.
The Quarter Master has forwarded a Parcel of Intrenching Tools & other Necessaries, with about 500 Tents, the latter to be equally & properly distributed amongst this last Detachmt No more can be had at this Time.
You will also receive the Chain General Lee ordered, which I think should be sent to & fixed at the Place It is designed for with all possible Expedition; It may be of Great service & Benefit.4
In Respect of Sailors to Cruize & pass in the Lakes, on the 24th Ulto I gave a Warrant to a Captn Jacobus Wynthrop for 276 Dollars for a Months Advance Pay for himself Officers & Men, who are engaged in that Service; Of this I then advised You & of their different Pay, that You might take an Account of It & know what they are to receive in future.5
I am exceedingly Sorry, You should have been so indisposed I had hoped that You would get perfectly restored, so as Not only to see the End of this Campaign, but Your Great Labour & unwearied Assiduity in the Cause of Your Country crowned with Success & the Blessings of Freedom. You have my Most fervent Wishes for It.
I have just received an Arrangement of the Companies allotted by the Committee of Safety to Colos. Wynkoop & Clinton, for their Regiments, a Copy of which You have inclosed, By which You will see they are diff[er]ently arranged from What You expected or I knew; I have therefore Countermanded an Order which was issued to Colo. Wynkoop before, & directed
[193]
him (the Companies at Albany being in his Regiment) to repair Immediately to You for such Directions & Orders respecting his Regiment as You may Judge Necessary to give, This You will employ at the Posts You Mention, & for the Communication, I can spare no more from hence, the ten Regiments already detached having weak[en]ed Us here too much. The four Companies of Colo: Clintons Regimt at the Highland Fortifications I intend shall remain there for Carrying on & Garrisoning those Works & which will be joined by Another, Those on Long Island will be kept there.6 I am, Dr Sir, with sentiments of Great Regard Your Most Obedt Servt

Go: Washington

