



Gentlemen
Camp at Cambridge Augt 81775



It must give great Concern to any considerate Mind that when this whole Continent at a vast Expence of Blood & Treasure is endeavouring to establish its Liberties on the most secure and Solid Foundations not only by a laudable Opposition of Force to Force but denying itself the usual Advantages of Trade, there are Men among us so basely sordid as to Counteract all our Exertions for the Sake of a little Gain. You cannot but have heard that the Distresses of the Ministerial Troops for fresh Provisions & many other Necessaries at Boston were very great: It is a Policy justifiable by all the Laws of War to endeavour to increase them, Desertions, Discouragement & a Dissatisfaction with the Service, besides weakning their Strength are some of the natural Consequences of such a Situation: And if continued might afford the fairest Hope of Success without farther Effusion of human Blood. A Vessell cleared lately out of New York for St Croix with fresh Provisions & other Articles has just gone into Boston instead of pursuing her Voyage to the West Indies. I have endeavoured to discover the Name of the Captain or Owner but as yet without Success. The Owner (it is said) went to St Croix before the Vessel from which & her late Arrival I make no Doubt you will be able to discover & expose the VillainAnd if you could fall upon some effectual Measures to prevent the like in future it would be doing a signal Service to our common Country.1
I have been endeavouring by every Means in my Power to discover the future Intentions of our Enemy here. I find a general Idea prevailing thro. the Army & in the Town of Boston that the Troops are soon to leave the Town & go to Some other Part of the Continent. New York is the Place generally mentiond as their Destination. I should think a Rumour or Suggestion of this kind worthy of very little Notice if it was not confirmed by some corresponding Circumstances. But a four
[275]
Weeks total Inactivity with all their Reinforcements arrived & recruited, the daily Diminution by Desertions, Sickness & small Skirmishes, induce an Opinion that any Effort they propose to make will be directed elsewhere. I thought it proper just to hint to you what is probably intended you will then consider what Regard is to be paid to it and what Steps will be proper for you to take if any.2 I am with great Respect & Regard Gent. Your most Obed: & very hume Servt

G. W.

