



Sir
Cambridge 10th[- 11] July 1775



I receivd your Favor of 1st Inst. by Express from New york; but as I am exceedingly hurried in making out my Dispatches for the Hble Congress at Philadelphia it is not in my Power to answer it in so full a Manner as I wish.
Notwithstanding Governor Tryons plausible Behaviour I recommend it to you to watch him narrowly and as any unlucky Change of Affairs on our part may produce in him a Change of his present unexceptionable Conduct; I expect you will on the first Appearance of such Change pursue the Advice given in my last Letter.1 The like Advice I give you re[s]pectg General Haldiman who is supposd by some to have gone to N. York with a Design to counteract us in that province.2 The Commissions which have been forwarded to me, are not sufficient to answer the Demand I have for them there being at least 1000 Officers in this Department & not more than 500 Commissions in my Possession. As you are so much nearer to Philada than I am I request you to apply to Congress for as many as you are like to Want.
The disper[s]ing of hand Bills amongst the Troops on their arrival at N. York has my most hearty approbation& may have a good Effect here.
Our Enemies have attempted Nothing against us since my Arrival hereThey are strongly posted on Bunkers Hill and
[102]
are still busy in throwing up additional Works. We have thrown up several Lines & Redoubts between Mystick River & Dorchester point to prevent their making way into the Country & in a few Days shall be well prepared to receive them in Case a Sortie is attempted.
I sincerely thank you for your Attention to the Directions of the Congress & for your kind Wishes and am with much regard Sir Yr Obedt friend & most Obedt H: Ser.

G. Washington


P.S. I herewith Inclose a report this Minute received from the Camp at DorchesterThe Design of this Manoevre I am at a loss to know; but suppose it may be intended as a diversion to our Forces here. It howevr behooves you to keep a good look out to prevent any surprize your way.3

