



Sir
Williamsburg June 27th 1757



I recd Yrs of the 21st  Jenkins1& am glad the first Intelligence of the French & Indians formidable March with Artillery, Waggons &ca proves false; that they will continue to send scouting Parties to harrass these Colonies, I always expected, & probably they may now increase their Numbers to make a strong Push; but still as its Indian News, who cannot count Numbers, I woud gladly hope they are not so formidable as represented; however I think it prudent that You keep of Frederick, Fairfax & Prince Wm one hundred of each till the Draught arrive at Winchester, I suppose many of them are now at Fredericksburg where I hope You have sent Officers to receive them.
The French Officers Information, who is Prisoner with You, may partly be true in regard to the Strength at Fort Du Quesne; but I cannot think they will send any Forces from Montreal, as its natural to think they will keep all the Forces they can to the No[rth]ward to oppose Ld Loudouns Operations; or can any Number of Cherokees or Creeks come to their Assistance; all the Cherokees have declard for us, & taken up the Hatchet, except the Town of Tellico, in the Upper Cherokee Country;2 & from So. Carolina its reported the Creeks declare themselves our Friends.
The Indians who harrass our Frontiers are partly some of
[268]
those that formerly did so, as the 48 Indians that parted with them the Day before they were attackd, as reported were Shawnesse; & no doubt they have many of the Western Indians. I hope the Acct of their Cannon is true.
Or can I believe the arrival of 3000 Soldiers at Montreal, we shoud have had an Acct from Home if any such Embarkation was made. I approve of Your Orders to Majr Lewis, & I hope You will not have occasion to evacuate those Forts; tho on the first Intelligence sent here of the Designs of the French, with Artillery &ca the Council advisd the evacuating those Forts to reinforce Fort Loudoun.
You wrote to Co. Stanwix which Letter he answerd, but did not that Part relating to the Small Arms; I think You shoud have communicated to me the Contents of that Letter, for I do not know where he & his Forces are.
I have Reason to think most of the Draughts will be at Frederickburg this Week, & I doubt not You have sent Officers to receive them;3 & as I orderd the Militia of several other Counties to Your Assistance, You are to order them to return Home, excepting those three Counties above.
No News from Britain, & I am quite in the Dark as to Ld Loudouns Motions, not having any Letter these two Months. The Treasurer this Day sends to Fredericksburg Money to pay the Volunteers & Draughts their enlisting Money, who are to be incorporated with the Regiment. I much want to know Co. Stanwixs Opinion & his Disposition of the Troops on this late Information of the Enemys Motions. My Respects to Mr Atkin, I cannot write him now, & I remain Sir Your most humble Servant

Robt Dinwiddie

