



[Fort Loudoun, 9 June 1757]



At a Court of Enquiry held at Fort Loudoun June 9th 1757 to enquire why Lieut. Campbell did not according to Colo. Washingtons Orders proceed with the Detachment that was destind for South Carolina.1
Capt. Robert Stewart President


Capt. Bell
Members
Capt. Lieut. McNiel


Lieut. Lomax2
Ens. Thompson


Ens. Crawford
Ens. Roy3


Ens. Russell



Lieut. Campbell being askd whether he had received Colo. Washingtons orders to go with the Detachment to South Carolina, answerd he had, and that in Consequence of these orders he joind the Command intended for that place with which he remaind 3 Weeks when Lieut. Colo. Stephen orderd him to rejoin his former Company which orders were deliverd him first in the presence of Ensign Hubbard and after wards repeated before Capt. Bell and Lieut. Lomax with these Circumstance that Lieut. Colo. Stephen expressd his surprise that any Officers should be absent from his Command that he (Lieut. Campbell) replyd that it was contrary to his desire that he was absent from his, that then Colo. Stephen orderd him out of Town immediately & upon his telling him he had no Horse the Lieut. Colo. replyd Horse or no Horse by God you must go.
Capt. Bell and Lieut. Lomax affirm that they heard the orders given and nearly in the same terms as above.
Ensn Roy says that he was in Company with Lieut. Colo. Stephen & Lieut. Campbell, that Lieut. Campbell was mentioning something he intended to do, when he should get to Charles Town, that then Colo. Stephen said why John I thought you did not want to go there and that the Lieut. replyd that he had never told any Body so and was much surprisd how he shoud think so the Colo. still insisted that he did not want to goEnsn Roy likewise says that he either imagind that Lieut. Colo. Stephen intended these orders as a hint to Lieut. Campbell, that his Compy woud be disagreeable or that he wanted to substitute another Officer in his Room.
[208]
Lieut. Campbell further says that from several circumstance he imagind that Lieut. Colo. Stephen intended that Ensn Hubbard shoud go in his Room, and that then he applyd for Leave to stay wch was granted & Ensn Hubbard appointed for the Command.
It is the unanimous opinion of the Court that as the Command devolvd upon Lieut. Colo. Stephen in the absence of Colo. Washington that Lieut. Campbell was under a Necessity of punctually obeying his orders, and that he had acted that part which he had allways done of a good Officer.

Robert Stewart

