



Sir
[Williamsburg, 16 May 1757]



You are, so soon as you arrive at Fort Loudoun, to inform the Officers that the Assembly having considerd the great expence the Virginia Regiment has cost The Country from the Number of Companies it consisted of, And those Companies not half compleat in proportion to the vast Charge of OfficersIt is resolved, for the better Saving of expences, and establishing a proper Regulation, that The said Regiment shall Consist only of ten Companies, of one hundred Men eachthat all the Captains but Seven, be reduced1Those I have thought proper to continue, are Captains Mercer, Waggoner, Stewart, Joshua Lewis, Woodward, Spotswood, and McKenzie2To those Discontinued in the Command of Captains, (not from any Particular
[154]
Misconduct or Demerit imputed) You are to Offer Lieutenancysand Compleat the Number of Lieutenants to Twenty, out of the eldest Subalterns, unless there be some, whose Conduct does not entitle them to the PreferenceThe Ensigns for the regiment are to consit of ten and to be filld up in the same manner, having regard to their Charecters and Behaviour.
After the Companys are formed, You are to Occupy the following posts in the following manner,3 till Your numbers are increased vizt


at Fort Loudoun
100
Men commanded
by Yourself


at Maidstone
70
Men commanded
by Capt. Stewart


at Edwardss
25
MenDo
by a Subaltern


at Pearsalls
45
MenDo
by Capt. McKenzie


In the Nighbourhood of Butter Milk Fort.




70
Men. Commanded
by Capt. Waggener.


at Dickensons
70
Men Commanded
by Major Lewis


at Vausss
70
MenDo
by Capt. Woodward




450





You are to remain at Winchester, and there use your utmost Dilligence and care in forwarding the Public Works, with all possible expedition.
You are to continue all the Assistant Commissaries that are requisite, till such time as The Assembly comes to Some further Resolutions on this head, and issue your Orders Accordingly.
You are no longer to have concern with, or management of, Indian affairs. The Honble Mr Atkin is appointed by His Majesty for that extraordinary ServiceHe is now repairing to Winchester for that purpose, and will I suppose, if he should be obliged to leave it before the Indians return home, appoint some Person to transact the Business in his Absence.4
So Soon as The Assembly have resolved on the Ways and Means of raising Men I shall advise You thereof, that You may be prepard for their receptionand send Officers to meet them if Ordered so to do.5 Given at Williamsburg this 16th Day of May. 1757

Robt Dinwiddie

