



Dear Sir
Fort Loudoun Janry 16th 1759



I had the extreme pleasure of receiving your very agreeable favour by Mr Boyd and beg leave to present my hearty Congratulations on your happy union with the Lady that all agree has long been the just object of your affectionsmay you long enjoy all the Felicity you proposd by it, or that Matrimony can possibly affordBe so good as to offer my Complements in the most respectful and obliging Terms to Your Lady (a new Stile
[188]
indeed) and tho she has robd me and many others of the greatest satisfaction we ever had or can enjoy in this Service yet none can be more sollicitous for her happiness.1
The regret, dejection and grief your Resignation has occasiond in the whole Corps is too melancholy a Subject to enter on at this Juncture will therefore wave it.
I am at a loss for words to express the grateful sense I have for the particular manner in which you have been Pleasd to Interest yourself in my welfare and your constant attention to its promotion, I know it to be so entirely the pure dictates of sincere Friendship, that acknowledgements are not only unecessary but troublesome But how can I silence Gratitude?
The Govrs answer was candit polite and obliging tho I think from it we may naturally infer that long Service claims no particular exertion of his Power to reward ityou see with what freedom I write the secret Sentiments of my mindI had concerted a Plan for resuming another way of Life had that you proposd taken place, but it like all my other Schemes however apparently well laid is renderd abortiveI have long been the sport of an adverse Fortune and dreads I must lay my accots with living and dying so.2
On the 7th Inst. my appointment to a Lieuty in the Royal-Americans was given in publick Orders at Carlyle by General Forbes3 and an Express sent next day with a Commission for me (but by a mistake of Major Halkets Blains was Inclosd to me) with Orders to Join the Division of the first Battalion with which we did Duty last Campaign, as soon as my Affairs will permit me4I need not inform you how disagreeable that Corps is to me, and that all my often well grounded hopes of Military Preferment is too likely to terminate in a pittance barely sufficient to keep Soul and Body togetherIt sometimes happens that when Provincial Officers gets inferior Commissions in the Service, that they are sufferd to retain their Commands in the Provincial Pay, of this, I know two Instances vizt Colo. Glazier of the N. York Regiment and Colo. Parker of the N. Jersey Regiment both Lieuts. in the R. Americans;5 and as I will if Colo. Stephen should not get our Regt be a Field Officer in course,6 the Governors Interest and yours would probably procure me an Indulgence of this kind, which would make me excessively happy, as I should thereby be not only freed from
[189]
doing Sub[altern]s Duty renderd doubly disagreeable by being under the Orders of many I have long Commanded which would be gratting to the last degree,7 But in time enable me with the Price of my Lieutenancy and a small assistance from my Friends to Purchass a Compy the Summit of my present ambition8But if this or what I sollicited you for cannot possibly be obtaind, what will you advise me to do? to enter at my time of Life, youngest Lieut. in His Majestys Service and spin out the remainder of an unfortunate Life in Want and Toils or search for an obscure livelyhood in some private BussinessI have not nor woud not mention this to any other upon Earth.9
Six days ago General Forbes left Lancaster on his way to Philadephia where General Amherst waits his arrival its said to concert the Plan of operations for next Campaignwhen the several Detachments of Highlanders, R. americans and Pensylvanians that are Marchd for Pittsbg arrives there its Garrison will consist of near 800 EffectivesTheres nothing new hereWe have lost 8 Men by DesertionJenkins goes down with a Letter from the Genl to the Govr I by him send his Honr a Return of the Regt in which theres little alteration from the last I sent you10I long to hear from you and ever am with the highest Esteem and most entire regard My Dear Colo. Your most Affectionate & Most Obliged hble Servt

Robert Stewart


P.S. I leave it to you to mention my having got a Commission in the American Regt to the Govr.

