
To Governor Fauquier
Honble SirFort Cumberld Camp 5th August 1758. Your favour of the 20th Ulto I was honourd with the day before Yesterday. I am sorry to find Mr Smith has not sent you a return of the Armsnor Mr Ramsay one of the Provisions. I
[370]
will write to both those Gentlemen for the reason.1 Inclosd is a return of the first Regiment.2
I neglected till nowpurposelysince my last of the 10th Ultoto give your honour any acct of Our Expedition; hoping at last to be furnishd with something agreeable; being disappointed in this, I am sorry to inform you that we are still Incampd here, and have little prospect of de-camping, unless a fatal Resolution takes place of opening a New Road from Rays Town to Fort Duquesnein this eventI have no doubt but we shall be honourd with a full share of the labour, as we have already been in opening a Communication from hence to Rays Town, and doing the principal part of the Work at that place.
I am just returnd from a Conference held with Colo. Bouquet on this occasion. The General lying indisposd at CarlyleIn the conference I urgd, in the most perswasive terms I was Master of, the advancd Season as an argument against new discoveries. I pressd alsothe difficulties of cutting a erasure over these Mountains3the length of time it must require to do itthe little time left for that Servicethe moral certainty of its obstructing Our Marchand the miscarriage of the Expedition from that causeand lastlyI endeavourd to represent the distressd Condition the Colonies woud be reduced to, consequent thereuponIn fine, I said, and did every thing to avert a erasure that seemd to forebode our manifest Ruinthis is the light it appeard inI pray Heaven my Fears may prove imaginary onlybut the thoughts of opening a Road 100 Miles in lengthover Mountains almost inaccessable, at this advanced Season, when there is already a good Road madea Road universally confessd to be the best that either is, or can be found any where thr these Mountains, prognosticates somethingerasure.4
I have now drawn up a Representation of real Facts to be presented to the Generalin which I think, the advantages of going the old Road, and the moral certainty of failing in the new are so clearly demonstrated, that it must strike every unbiassd Mind, as the greatest perspicuity, & impartiallity runs through the whole account.5
The small Pox getting among the Troops, is another unpromising Circumstance attending the Expedition. An Officer and two Men of my Regiment are down with it at Rays Town.6
[371]
from this short narrative of our affairs your honour may draw conclusions: you may depend upon the acct being genuinefree from exagerationsand flowing from a Mind deeply affected at the prospect before Us. I hope, as I once before saidthat I see matters in a false point of view; and, that my Apprehensions for the Consequence of opening a new Road are Groundlessmy next perhaps may declareI am with all due Respect Yr Honrs most Obedt Hble Servt

Go: Washington


P.S. I was this moment presented with a Letter from Colo. Bouquet telling me, that the General had directed the other Road to be opend;7 I expect therefore to be Orderd that way immediatelyOrders are not yet arrivd.

Go: Wn
