


Parole: Xantippe.




[6, 7, 8 July 1756]Fort Cumberland [Md.] Tuesday, July 6th 1756.



The General Court martial, whereof Lieutenant Colonel Stephen was President, is dissolved. Colonel Washington has approved of the Sentence of the said Courtwhich was, that Lieutenant King had been guilty of Disobedience of Orders; and consequently of a Breach of the fifth article of the second section of War: But, in consideration of his inexperience, and this being the first Detachment he had the sole command ofThey think his being reprimanded by Colonel Washington, at the head of the Battalion, will be a sufficient punishment for this first (though unhappy) fault.1
The Regiment is to be under arms this Evening at four oclockNo Officer nor Soldier off Duty, to be absentThe articles of war are then to be read.
A General court martial, to consist of five Captains, four Subalternsto sit immediately for trial of all the Desertersand of Robert Yates for Theft, and assisting a Deserter to make his escape.2 Captain Cocke, Presidentwho is to wait on Colonel
[239]
Washington for his commission. Mr KirkpatrickJudge-Advocate: All evidences to attend.
Colonel Washington expressly orders, that no Officer do provide himself with any other kind of Clothes than those ordered the 17th of September last:3 as they will not be allowed to appear in them. Every Officer who has not complied with that order, to do it immediatelyand they are all to procure Sashes, if to be hadThey may be supplied with Hats, and waistcoat-lace, at Mr Peterss, Rock-Creek4and sword-knotsThe Quarter-Master is to take a man per company, and see the Streets, between the Barracks, well cleanedthe Bog-houses cleaned,5 and all the filth and garbage near the Fort carried off. All noncommissioned Officers and Soldiers are expressly ordered to wear their hair; which it is expected the Officers will observe; and see that they dress their hair, and appear as soldier-like as possible.
As the Uniform ordered in September last at this Garrison is now fixed upon for the Virginia Regimentand Clothes and all other necessaries for the Soldiers are shortly expected in from Great BritainIt is again requested, that no Officer will fail to embrace the first opportunity of providing himself with such an uniform.
After Orders.
The General court martial whereof Captain Cocke was President is dissolvedColonel Washington has been pleased to approve of the Sentence of the said court martialwhich was of opinion that Andrew Lockhart should receive four hundred lashes: William Pritchard one thousand lashes, and be drummed out of the Regiment with a halter round his neck. John Leigh and Thomas Simmonsas it is the first offenceand they were ignorant of the consequence of Desertiontwo hundred and fifty lashes each.
William Davis being an old offendera thousand lashes: and John Jenkins, being persuaded off by Davis, five hundred lashes. and Robert Yates for Theft, and assisting in secreting a Deserter, one thousand lashes. The above prisoners to receive as much of their punishment as the Surgeon (who must attend upon this occasion) shall judge they are able to bear, this night at retreat-beating.6
