



[c.2026 April 1759]



Answers to the foregoing Queries
To the first. All such Goods as may be liable to perish or be the worse for keeping are by Law directed to be sold by public Auction as soon as conveniently may be after the debts paid1Yet I am of Opinion a Division may be made of the personal as well as the real Estate by the method hereafter mentioned. Mrs Washington has a clear right to one third of the Chattels of every kind whatsoever.2
To the second of illegible est & best method to have Mrs Washingtons Dower assignd illegible Estate divided will be by a Bill in Chancery to be brought in your & Mrs Washingtons names against the Children upon which Commissioners will be appointed not only to set apart her Dower in the Lands but to divide the money & bonded Debts & every other part of the Estate, one third of which belongs to Mrs Washington3And as I am satisfied your chief motive is to have the Childrens Shares set apart & ascertained, so that fair & regular Accounts may be kept of the Profits & all Disputes that might be occasioned by a joynt Occupation, avoided, so I am assured the Speaker who is appointed Guardian to prosecute & defend for the Children will agree to any Decision that may be for the Ease & advantage of all Persons concerned; and such a Division I am confident will readily be established by the Court.4
To the third. As it would be very inconvenient either to part with the furniture of the House or expose it to Sale in order to purchase itI make no doubt but the Commissioners will assign you any part of the household furniture you desire at the appraised value & the remainder may be sold.
To the fourth. The Cattle must be kept on the Heirs Lands
[214]
for his benefit & at his Risque. Except they are too numerous in which Case part of them may be sold. One third of the Cattle belongs to Mrs Washington & the Heir will be answerable to his Sister for one half of the appraised value of the other two thirds. The real & the personal Estate that will not be for the benefit of the Estate to keep mutilated Spoild illegible maybe sold.
To the fifth. Mrs Washington is accountable for everything inventoried and appraised, but ought to have Credit for such things as have been used or worn out about the Plantations: An Account of which will be properly made up before the Commissioners.
To the sixth. I also am of Opinion that she must be at the whole Expence of housekeeping since the appraisement, but as she accounts for the Profits of her Childrens Estates, she is entitled to a liberal Allowance for their maintenance.5
To the seventh. Mrs Washington is by Law entitled to the Guardianship of her Children till they attain fourteen years of Age, when they may choose their own Guardians but it is by all means advisable that a division & settlement be made before you undertake the Guardianship in her right. When that is done you must undertake it, or some other Guardian must be appointed, as the Speaker will have nothing to do with their Estates.6
To the Eighth. As Dunbars Claim is against Genl Parkes Estate that alone is liable, consequently no other Part of mrs Washingtons Dower than what she holds of that Estate can be affected by Dunbars Recovery.
To the ninth. So none of the money or Chattels you receive can be liableShould the Court adjudge Parkes Lands & Negroes to be so. I am of Opinion they will adjudge that Mrs Washingtons dower of that Estate should contribute in proportion to her Interest therein which is only for Life.7

J. Mercer

