



[3 May 1756]



At a Genl Court Martial held at Winchester May 2d [3d] 1756
Capt. Robert Steuart, President.


Capt. Woodward



Capt. Spotswood


Capt. Lewis

Capt. Harrisson


Lieut. Stark
Members
Capt. Bullett


Lieut. Blagg
Lieut. Eustace


Lieut. Lomax

Lieut. Williams


Lieut. Lowry

Lieut. King


Serjeant Nathan Lewis accused for retreating with a party of Men without orders and not going to the assistance of Capt. John Mercer when Engaged with the Indians the 18th April nigh Edwards Fort.1
Lieut. Lemon first Evidce Sworn, says he orderd Serjt Lewis
[78]
to go out with him from the Fort with about thirty men which he carrd out and at the same time orderd Lewis shoud go upon the right with a few of them and so keep up with him as to be able to join him upon an attackBut after marching a small Distance he found himself Deserted by half his men together with Lewis Mr Lemon continued his March till he overtook Lieut. Williams, when the Engagement BeganBut Lewis was not there and was found in the Fort on return.
Serjt Sallard Sworn says, Serjt Lewis Left the Fort when the other Party Did, and returnd to the Fort a Little before them.
John Beard2 Sworn says Serjt Lewis askd him and the other Soldiers with him to go upon the right of Lieut. Lemons party and that they went about a mile which brought them nigher the Fort, and seeing a Dog they Persued him then hearing Guns fire the[y] Consulted what to do and seeing Mr Blaggs party joind them. and that Lewis and he was never out of the Pasture till they joind Lieut. Blaggs party on their retreat The Deponent says that Lewis seemd very willing to join Lieut. Blaggs party.
John Whiffle3 Sworn says that he and Lewis and the others, marchd up the Pasture, after Leaving Lieut. Lemons party there they heard some Guns fired, and stopt sometime consulting what to do Lewis was askd, if they had not best join the party Engaged to which he answerd twas Dangerous and they might be shot by their own Men as well as the Indians, as they knew not which side they were Engaged upon, they afterwards seeing a party come out of the Fort the Deponent askd Lewis, if he woud not join them. but he said it was too Late and that they woud retreat before they coud join themhe further says several of the men run to Lieut. Blaggs party and he and Lewis being Left, they returnd to the Fort.
Serjt Lewis in Defence says that Lieut. Lemon orderd him to go up a Valley on the right (which Lieut. Lemon Denies, as allso that there was such a Valley) with Lemon,4 he there Marchd and Expected to meet with Mr Lemon, as he had promised to join him at the Head of the Valley (which Lieut. Lemon also denies) But when he came there he went in Persuit of an Indian Dog wch he saw.
Its the unanimous opinion of the Court that Serjt Lewiss
[79]
conduct is a man[i]fest Breach of the 12th Article of War 14th Section ( (Viz.) whatsoever officer of Soldie[r] shall Misbehave himself before the Enemy, or shamefully abandon any post committed to his Charge or shall speek Words inducing others to do the Like shall suffer Death)and merits the punishment thereby inflicted.


H. Woodward
Robert Stewart P[residen]t


Robert Spotswood
approvd by Sir Yr Hble Servt


Charles Lewis
Go: Washington


Henry Harrison



William Stark



Thos Bullitt



John Blagg



Hanck Eustace



J.E. Lomax



John Williams



John Loury



John King



