



Dear Sir
Fort Loudoun, Decembr 29th 1758



Your affectionate and obliging Letter of the 18th Inst. I with infinite pleasure received1 the very genteel manner in which those fresh marks of your disinterested Friendship are therein given at once Demonstrate your refind Sentiments of that Celestial virtue so rarely found genuine in this world and your steady perseverence in the prosecution of itIf I know anything of myself I think no distance of time or place can ever diminish that gratitude with which my heart overflows for the particular manner in which you have long been pleasd to take notice of me.
About 9 days ago Lt Colo. Stephens arrived here. I immediatly waited on him, shewd him your Orders and offerd to give them up to him as Commanding Officer but he before several Officers said that as he understood that the assembly had voted away the Lt Colo. he would no further be concernd with the Command,2 only to Sign the Discharges of the Drafts upon which I retaind the Command till yesterday he without giving
[174]
me the least notice, orderd the Adjutant to make him a Return of the Regiment, and that Jenkins might be got ready to go to Williamsbgas I knew him, was at no loss to account for this extraordinary Behaviour, and plainly saw his Intentions by Signing the Discharges and Transmitting the Returns was to make it appear to the Governor and you that he Commanded while I did the Duty, therefore I desird he would either take the Sole Command or no part of it, the former he made choice off, as his being reducd was not given out in Orders, and I suppose till then he will be entitled to his Payshould be vastly glad to know from you what is done in that affair and whether he is an officer in your Regiment or not? or if he is what his Rank is?
The Inclosd came here 2 days ago and as I knew the hand & that it could contain nothing relative to your private affairs I thought it better to open it and see if it was necessary to send an Express with it3if I have done amiss I beg youll forgive memy being formerly accustomd to it in similar cases could alone have inducd me to use that freedom on this occasionno Letter came along with it except the Inclosd for Docr Hay;4 one of the Expresses that went from here proceeded no further than Reas Town where he found the Inclosd Letters & forwarded those he had for the General by an Express he there met with, going to Loyalhann.
Its whisperd here that Lt C. Stephens has receivd a Letter from one of the Council intimating the Governors intention of giving him the Regt whenever you Resign5I need not tell you how alarming this is to the Corps but as I did not till Just now know of this oppy Im obligd to write you in a great hurry but as an Express will set out in a few days with an address from the Officers to you6 will write you more at leisureThe fear of losing you has struck a general Grief & Dejection in both officers and Soldiers the men have already begun to Desertno doubt Colo. Stephens has sent you an accot of the Situation of affairs hereI take the Liberty of sending the Inclosd advertisemints to be Publishd7 and begs leave to Subscribe myself with the highest Esteem & most perfect Regard My Dear Colo. Your most Affecte & Most Obliged humble Servt

Robert Stewart

