



Sir
Williamsburg May 23 [27] 1757



This probably may be deliverd to You by the Hon. Edmd Atkin Esqr. who has his Majestys Commission to transact & superintend all the Affairs with the different Tribes of Indians the back of Georgia, South & No. Carolina & this Dominion; I desire You will receive him in a genteel Manner, & on his meeting with the Indians now at Fort Cumberland, give a Grace to his Operations by having a Company under Arms when he opens his Commission & talks with themAs the whole Negotiation is left to him, he probably may acquaint You with every Thing he transacts with them.
Our Assembly has not fixd on the Supplies, & in course not yet printed any new Currency, but am told it will be done very soon; & You may assure the Officers & Soldiers that as soon as Money is coined, I will send up by Mr Boyd when he comes here, sufficient to pay all their Arrears.
If the Cherokees return Home I think it will be necessary You shoud send1 a detachment with them, either to Dickinsons or Vauss Fort, with design to keep them in order on their March thro the Country;2 I am sensible Your Men will be backward in marching without their Arrears; but if You can prevail on them to march You may assure them their Money shall be punctually sent them, the Pay Master bringing down a proper Acct of what may be due; I have endeavourd all in my Power to get the Money, & I am now assurd it will be very soon issued.
If Mr Atkin leaves any Goods at Fort Loudoun You may give a Receipt for them; & I suppose he will in Time appoint a Person to act in his Absence; & any Goods that remain of the Indian Present brought from Fort Cumberland, deliver them to Mr Atkin, taking his Receipt.
Capt. Pearis I think has greatly misbehaved, Mr Atkin is to enquire into it, & if guilty he is to be dismissd.3
The Assembly proposes raising 1200 Men & three Companies of Rangers of 100 Men each, but the Mode for raising them is not yet concerted, & I fear will be attended with great Difficulties.
I am surprizd Colo. Stephen is not come here with the two
[158]
Companies; by his Letter of the 12th he said he shoud be at Fredericksburg last Sonday was a Week, by which I expected him last Saturday.4
I cannot write You any Thing further till the Assembly goes thro the Business before them, in the mean Time I doubt not You will keep Your Men properly employd.
Capt. McNeill tells me he has a Ballance of the Money in his Hands that I gave him to pay for the Servants enlisted in Augusta, I have orderd him to pay it to You. I remain with Respect5 Sir Your humble Servant

Robt Dinwiddie


P:S: If Mr Atkin at any Time shoud incline to be in Private6 with the Indians, I desire You will take care to prevent his being interrupted.
27th Last night Collo. Stephens arived here with his men & is marched this day for Hampton, I am out of order & much fatigued. adieu

