


Parole: Dedham.




Fort Cumberland [Md.]Monday, July 12th 1756.



Lieutenant William Stark having resigned his Commission in the Virginia RegimentEnsign Buckner is promoted to his place.1
Messieurs James Duncanson, Jethro Sumner, Henry Russell, and Griffinpert, are appointed Ensigns in the Virginia Regiment.2
Mr John Hamilton, Sergeant-Major, is appointed Quarter-master to the said Regiment, in the room of Quarter-master
[251]
Bucker, who has resigned.3 A Return is to be given in this afternoonfour oclock, of all the Stores and Provisions now at this Garrison.4 The Suttlers now at this place are to be informed, that they must dispose of what liquor they have on hand and that for the future the Grand Suttler will only be allowed to sell any liquour at this Garrison.5
The Companies of the Virginia Regiment, are formed as follows, and are to continue so, without a particular order to the contrary.6
First Company: Colonel Washington
Captain Lieutenant John McNiell
Ensign [      ]7


2d Compy
Lt Colonel Adam Stephen Lt John Blagg Ensign James Roy



3d Company
Captain Peter Hogg Lt Thomas Bullet Ensign Fleming



4th Company
Captain George Mercer Lt Bryan Fairfax Ensign Denis McCarty



5th Company
Captain Thomas Waggener Lt Walter Stewart Ensign Charles Smith



6th Company
Captain Robert Stewart Lt John Campbell Ensign Henry Russell



7th Compy
Captain Thomas Cocke Lieutenant Buckner Ensign Weedon



8th Company
Captain William Bronaugh Lieutenant Eustace Ensign Sumner



9th Company
Captain Joshua Lewis Lt John King Ensign Duncanson



10th Company
Captain Henry Woodward Lt Brockenbrough Ensign Dangerfield



[252]


11th Company
Captain Robert Spotswood Lieutenant Lomax Ensign Milner



12th Company
Captain Charles Lewis Lt Steenbergen Ensign Hubbard



13th Company
Captain William Peachy Lt John Williams Ensign Pert



14th Company
Captain David Bell Lt John Lowry Ensign Deane



15th Company
Captain Robert McKenzie Lieutenant Baker Ensign Price



16th Company
Captain Henry Harrison Lt John Hall Ensign Thompson



17th Company
Captain Christopher Gist Lt Nathaniel Gist Ensign Crawford
Scouts


The following appointments are made to the aforesaid Companiesof Sergeants and Corporals;8 who are not to be broke or changed, but by the Sentence of a Court Martialor particular orders from the Colonel: as such practices have made great confusion in the Regiments. vizt


Companies
Sergeants
Corporals


1st The Colonels
John Sallard
Samuel Longworth



John Belfour
Wm Stewart Packet



 
 


2d The Lt Colos.
Thomas Carter
Philemon Waters



John Graham
Isaac Barringer



Wm Grant
Wm Coffland


3d Capt. Hoggs
John McCulley
 Smith



 Wilper
 



 
 


4th Captain Mercers
Angus McDonnald
Saml French



John Matthews
Jno. Pope



John Grinnon
Benj. Barrett


5th Cap. Waggeners
Wm Shaw
Geo. Salmon



John [Francis] Austin
Sam. Poe



Mark Hollies
John Cray [Creagh]


6th Cap. Rt Stewarts
Wm Hughes
Wm Broughton



David Kenedy
 


[253]



 
 


7th Captain Cockes
John McWilliams
Jas Thomas



Henry Williams
Geo. Clark



Jno. Reynolds
Dougal Campbell


8th Capt. Bronaughs
Richard Trotter
Wm Hunt



John Nash
Jno. Naughty



Hugh Campbell
Heny Steel


9th Capt. Josh. Lewiss
And. Vaughan
Joseph Wills



John Gender
Richd Foster



Hen. Carrier
Tho. Carrier


10th Cap. Woodwards
Joseph Faint [Fent]
Jas Carmichael



Wm Evans
Jno. Clark



Geo. Whitecotton
Wm Heath


11th Capt. Spotswoods
Joseph Bledsoe
Jno. Sale



Richd Good
Edw. Lary [Leary]



Saml Robinson
Jas Lile [Lyle]


12th Cap. Charles Lewiss
Chas Collieux [Cailliaux]
Samp. Franklin



Abrah. Crittenoon
Tho. Edmondson



 
 


13th Cap. Peachys
 Baker
Jno. Gaskins



Reuben Vass
John Gall [Richard Gale]



Bibby Brookes [Broocke]
Jas Gutridge


14th Capt. Bells
Tho. Ferguson
Dav. Hartwell



James Young
Whitnal Warner



Charles Scot
Jas Clark


15th Cap. McKenzies
James [John] Campbell
Timo. Shaw



James Hatfield
Jno. Adams



James Robinson
Bryan Page


16th Captain Harrisons
Jas Morrell [Norrell]
Tho. Wright



Tho. Seal
Francis Walker



Francis Moreland
Benj. Cotton


17th Cap. Gists
John Barrett
Tho. White



Richd Posey
Morde. Gosling



Rich. Davis
Gist Vaughan


As the allowance of three Batmen to a company is very sufficient, Colonel Washington expressly orders that no Officer do presume to take a Soldier to do that Duty; as he has been informed hath been practised.
As it occasions very great confusion among the companies to swap and change the menThey are now regulatedand it is ordered that no Officer shall upon any pretence swap or change any man.
The Companies commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Stephen; Captains Woodward, Charles Lewis, Peachy and Harrisonwith their respective Officers &c. as now appointedare to remain in this Garrison. The other companies now here, are to hold themselves in readiness to march to the South-Branch tomorrow.
[254]
As there are several men of the different companies on commandeach officer is, as soon as possibly he can, to collect his own men from the several commands. The Order about Regimentals has been mistakenColonel Washington only expects the Officers will buy lace for their Hats and waist-coatsand it is hoped, they will immediately comply with this order.9
Ensign Russell is to hold himself in readiness to join the Troop at Conogochiegand Ensign Pert to proceed to Winchester, to join Captain Peachy.
After Orders.
As there have orders repeatedly been issued, strictly requiring all Captains and commanding officers of companies to take two receipts from each manone to be entered in a Book, kept for the use of the companythe other to be sent on a sheet of paper to Colonel Washingtonin order to prevent the number of complaints which are hourly made by Soldiers, who deny having received their subsistance. It is therefore peremptorily ordered once more, that all captains and commanding officers of companies and Detachments, do pay due obedience to this order: for if they delay sending the receipts until a second payment is made, they will be put under an arrest, and tried for Disobedience (of orders) and the party complaining shall immediately receive satisfaction, without enquiring into the justice of the complaint.10
There has also been an order given for Returns to be made to Colonel Washington of those men who assisted in clearing the Roads last year to Monongehela in order that he might remit them to the Quarter Master General[.] The men will receive six-pence for every day that they have worked and the Subalterns three shillings per day[.] The number of days they worked to be certified by an Officer[.] Colonel Washington expects this return to be made as soon as possible, in order that he may serve both the officers and Soldiers; otherwise he will give himself no further trouble about it.11
A Regimental Court martial to sit immediately for trial of all the Prisoners in the Guard.
[255]
Evening Orders.
The Troops will not march to-morrowbut it is expected all Officers, &c. will be ready to march next day, as Colonel Washington will not postpone the march any longer.12
One Captain two Subalterns, and sixty rank and file to parade to-morrow morning at gun-firing. The Captain to wait on Colonel Washington at retreat-beating for orders. None of the men that are to march on Wednesday, are to be put on Duty.
