
To Jno. Robinson Esqr. Speaker.
My dear Sir,Camp at Fort Cumbd 1 Septemr 1758. We are still Incampd herevery sicklyand quite dispirited at the prospect before UsThat appearance of Glory once in viewthat hopethat laudable Ambition of Serving Our Country, and meriting its applause, is now no more! Tis dwindled into easeSlothand fatal inactivityand in a Word, All is lost. if the ways of Men in power, like the ways of Providence are not Inscrutablewhy erasure they not? for we who view the Actions of great Men at so vast a distance, can only form conjectures agreable to the small extent of our knowledgeand ignorant of the comprehensive Schemes intended, mistake, plaugily, in judging by the Lumpthis may be, and yet every Fl will have his Notionsprattle & talk awayand pray why may not I?1
We seem thento act under an evil Genithe conduct of our Leaders (if not actuated by superior Orders) is temperd with somethingI dont care to give a name toindeed I will go further, and say they are ds, or something worse to Psvn Artificeto whose selfish views I attribute the miscarriage of this Expedition, for nothing now but a miracle can bring this Campaigne to a happy Issue.
In my last I told you (I think) that I had employd my little abilities in opposing the measures then concerting.2 To do this I not only represented the advancd Seasonthe difficulties of cutting a new Road over these Mountainsthe little time left for that Servicethe Moral certainty of its obstructing our March, and the miscarriage of the Expedition consequent thereuponbut I indeavourd to represent also the great struggle Virginia had made this Year in raising a Second Regiment at so
[433]
short a notice and great expenceand her inability of a future exertion in case of need; I spoke my Fears concerning the Southern Indians in the event of a miscarriage; and in fine spoke all unavailingly, for the Road was immediately begun, and since then, from one to two Thousand Men have constantly wrought upon it. By the last Accts I receivd they had cut it to the Foot of Lawrel Hill about 35 Miles and I suppose by now 15,00 Men have taken post at Loyal hanning, about 10 Miles further, where our next Fort is intended to be constructed.
We have certain Intelligence that the French Strength at Fort Duquesne the 13th Ulto did not exceed 800 Men, Indians Included; of whom their appeard to be 3 or 400this Acct is corroborated on all hands. two officers of the first Virginia Regiment in different Parties and at different times, having come from thence since that time, after lying a day or two in full view of the Fort Secreted, and observing the motions and strength of the Enemy.3
See therefore how our time has been mispentbehold the golden oppertunity lost& perhaps never may after againHow is it to be accounted for? can Gl Fs have Orders for this? Impossible: Will then our Injurd Country pass by such abuses? I hope not. Rather let a full representation of the matter go to His Majesty. Let him know how grossly his Honr and the Publick money has been prostituted. I wish I was sent immediately home erasure some other on this Errand.4 I think without vanity I coud set the Conduct of this Expedition in its true colours, having taken some pains, perhaps more than any other to dive into the bottom of it. But no more, adieu my dear SirIt has long been the luckless Fate of poor Virginia to fall a Victim to the views of her Crafty Neighbours; and yield her honest efforts to promote their common Interests, at the expence of much Blood & Treasure; while her sincerety justified her Measures. We now can only bewail that blindness, and wish for happier times, which seem at so remote a distance that illegible5 rather to be wishd than expected.6
Colo. Byrd who is really unwell joins me in Compliments to you7the Attorney and the rest of our FriendsI am with the Utmost Sincerity My Dr Sir Yr Most Obedt & Obligd Friend and Servt

Go: Washington

