



Dear Brother,
Camp at Cambridge about 51 Miles from Boston July 20. 1775.



Agreeable to your request I am now set down to write to you, although in the first place I have scarce time to indulge an Inclination of the kind, and in the next place do not know how or whether it may ever get to your hands.
[135]
I came to this place the 2d Instant & found a numerous army of Provencials under very little command, discipline, or orderI found our Enemy who had drove our People from Bunkers Hill strongly Intrenching, and from Accts had reason to expect before this, another attack from them; but, as we have been incessantly (Sundays not excepted) employed in throwing up Works of defence I rather begin to believe now, that they think it rather a dangerous experiment; and that we shall remain sometime watching the Motions of each other, at the distance of little more than a mile & in full viewfrom the best Accts we have been able to get, the number of the Enemy amounts to between 10 and 12,000 Men; part of which are in Boston, & part on Bunkers Hill just byour numbers including Sick, absent &ca are between 16 & 18,000; but then, having great extent of Lines & many places to defend, & not knowing where the attack may be made (as they have the entire command of the Water & can draw their whole force to any one point in an hour or twos time without any person but the Commanding Officer who directs it having the least previous notice of it) our situation is a little unfavourable. but not so bad but that I think we can give them a pretty warm reception if they think proper to make any advances towards ustheir situation is such as to secure them from any attack of ours.
By what we can learn, they are sadly distressd for want of fresh ProvisionsBeef (the Milch Cows in Boston) sells from One shilling to 18d. Sterg pr lb.Mutton higher, & these only to be had for the Sick. the number of those killed & wounded in the engagement on Bunkers Hill could not fall short of 1100, ours did not exceed 450a few more such Victories would put an end to their army and the present contest.
The Village I am in, is situated in the midst of a very delightful Country, and is a very beautiful place itself, though smalla thousand pities that such a Country should become the theatre of WarA Month from this day will bring on some Capitol change I expect; for if the Enemy are not able to penetrate into the Country, they may as well, one would think, give up the point & return home; for if they stay at Boston & at Bunkers Hill (which is another Peninsula left unto it, & seperated by a small Ferry over to Charles Town which is part of the Neck I say if they stay at those places for ever, the end for
[136]
which they were sent cannot be accomplished; & to compel them to remain there, is the principal object we have in view indeed the only.
We have seen nothing of the Rifle men yet, nor have we heard any thing certain of them. I have only time to add my love to my Sister & the Family & to assure you that I am with unfeigned regard & truth Dr Sir Yr Affecte Brother and friend

Go: Washington


P.S. In the late Ingagemt of the 17th Ulto the Enemy by the best Accts we can get had 1043 Men killed & Wounded Whereof 92 Were Officersour loss amounted to 139 killed 278 Wounded & 36 Missing2pray remember me kindly to Mr Warner Washington and Family3 when you see them.

