



Dear Sir,
Cambridge 15th Decr 1775.



Since my last, I have had the pleasure of receiving your Favours of the 28th Ulto and 2d Instt.1 I must again express my gratitude for the attention shewn Mrs Washington at PhiladelphiaIt cannot but be pleasing, altho it did in some measure, impede the progress of her journey on the Road.
I am much obliged to you for the hints containd in both of the above Letters respecting the jealousies which you say are
[552]
gone abroad. I have studiously avoided in all Letters intended for the publick eyeI mean for that of the Congressevery expression that could give pain or uneasinessand I shall observe the same rule with respect to private Letters, further than appears absolutely necessary for the illucidation of Facts, I cannot charge myself with incivility, or, what in my opinion is tantamount, ceremonious Civility, to the Gentlemen of this Colony; but if such my conduct appears, I will endeavour at a reformation, as I can assure you my dear Reed that I wish to walk in such a Line as will give most general Satisfaction. You knew, that it was my wish at first to Invite a certain number of the Gentlemen of this Colony every day to dinner, but, unintentionally I believe by any body, we some how or other missed of it; if this has given rise to the jealousy, I can only say that I am sorry for it, at the same time I add, that it was rather owing to inattention, or more properly too much attention to other matters, which caused me to neglect it. The Extracts of Letters from this Camp which so frequently appear in the Pensa Papers are not only written without my knowledge, but without my approbation, as I have always thought they must have a disagreeable tendency; but there is no restraining Mens tongues, or Pens, when charged with a little vanity, as in the Accounts given of or rather by the Rifflemen.
With respect to what you have said of yourself, & Situation, to what I have before said on this subject, I can only add, that whilst you leave the door open to my expectation of your return, I shall not think of supplying your place. If, ultimately, you resolve against coming, I should be glad to know it, as soon as you have determind upon it. The Congress have resolvd well in respect to the pay of, and advance to the Men,2 but if they cannot get the Money Signers to dispatch their business it is of very little avail, for we have not at this time money enough in Camp to answer the Commissarys & Qur Masters accts much more to pay, and advance to the Troopsstrange conduct this!
The Acct which you have givn of the Sentiments of People respecting my conduct is extreamely flatteringpray God I may continue to deserve them in the perplexd and Intricate situation I stand inOur Inlistment goes on Slow, by the Returns last Monday3 only 5917 Men are engaged for the Insuing Campaign, & yet we are told, that we shall get the Number
[553]
wanted as they are only playing off to see what advantages are to be made, & whether a bounty cannot be extorted either from the Publick at large, or Individuals, in case of a draft. time only can discover thisI doubt the measure exceedingly.
The Fortunate Capture of the storeship4 has supplied us with Flints, & many other Articles we stood in need ofbut we still have our wantsWe are securing our Approach to Litchmores Point, unable upon any principle whatever to Acct for their Silence, unless it be to lull us into a fatal security to favour some attempt they may have in view about the time of the great change they expect will take place the last of this MonthIf this be the drift, they deceive themselves for if possible it has Increasd my Vigilance, & induced me to Fortify all the Avenues to our Camps to guard against any approaches upon the Ice.
If the Virginians are wise, that Arch Traitor to the Rights of Humanity, Lord Dunmore, should be instantly crushd, if it takes the force of the whole Colony to do it. otherwise, like a snow Ball in rolling, his army will get sizesome through Fearsome through promisesand some from Inclination joining his StandardBut that which renders the measure indispensably necessary, is, the Negros; for if he gets formidable, numbers of them will be tempted to join who will be affraid to do it without. I am exceeding happy to find, that that Villain Connelly is siezed; I hope if there is any thing to convict him, that he will meet with the Punishment due to his demerit, & treachery.
We impatiently wait for Accts from Arnoldwould to God we may hear he is in Quebec& that all Canada is in our possession. My best respects to Mrs Reed I am Dr Sir Yr Affecte Hble Servt

Go: Washington


P.S. The Small Pox is in every part of Bostonthe Soldiers there who have never had it, are we are told under Innoculation& considerd as a Security against any attempt of ours. A third ship load of People is come out to point ShirleyIf we escape the Small Pox in this Camp, & the Country round about, it will be miraculousEvery precaution that can be, is taken to guard against this Evil both by the General Court & myself.5

G. Wn
