



Honble Sir
Alexandria January 13th 1756



Majr Lewis being at Winchester when your Letter came to hand was immediately dispatchd to Augusta to take upon him the command of the Troops destind against the Shawnesse Town with orders to follow such directions as he shoud receive from you.1 this scheme th I am apprehensive will prove abortive as we are told that those Indians are removd up the Riverinto the Neighbourhood of Du-quisne.
I have given all necessary orders for traing the Men to a proper use of their Armsand the method of Indn Fighting and hope in a little time to make them expert. and I shoud be glad to have your honours express Commands either to prepare for taking the Fieldor guarding our Frontiers in the springbecause the steps for these two are very differentI have already built two Forts on Pattersons Creek (which has engagd the chief of the Inhabitants to return to their Plantns) and have now orderd Captn Waggoner with 60 Men to build and Garrison two others (on places I have pointed out high up) on the South branch2which will be a means of secureing near 100 Miles of our Frontier exclusive of the Command at Fort Dinwiddie on Jacksons Riverand indeed without a much greater number of Men than we have a visible prospect of getting I dont see how its possible to think of passing the Mountains or acting more than defensively. this seems to be the full determination of the Pensylvanians so that there can be no hope for assistance from that quarter. If We only act defensively I woud most earnestly recommend the buildg a strong Fort at some convenient place in Virginia as that in Marylandnot to say any thing of the Situation which is extreame badwill ever be an Eye Sore to this Colony. and attended with more Inconveniences than its possible to ennumerate. one Instance of this I have taken notice of in a letter that accompanys this and many more I coud recite were it necessary.3 If we take the Field, there is not time to carry on a work of this kind but shoud immediately sett about engageing Waggons Horses, Forage, Pack Saddles, &ca &ca and hear I cannot help remarking that I believe it will be impossible to get Waggons or horses sufft witht
[279]
the old Score is paid of as the People are really ruind for want of their money and complain justly of their griviences.4
I represented in my last the Inconveniences of the late Act of Assembly which obliges us, first to send to your honour for a commission to hold Genl Courts Martial and then to delay execution till a warrt can be had from Williamsburg. and hope you will take the same into consideration5we have several Deserters now on h[an]d which I have taken by vigorous measures that shoud be made examples to others as this practice is continud with greater spirit than ever.
Unless Cloathing is soon providedthe Men will be unfit for any kind of serviceand I know of no expedient to procure them but by sendg to the Northward as Cloath cannot be had here. I left among other returns an exact acct of the Cloathg at every place when I was in Wmsburg.6
I shant care to lay in Provision for more than 1,000 Men unless I have your honours orders. we have put out such of the Beeves as were unfit for Slaughterg[.] If they survive the Winter they may be useful in the Summer.
Ensign Polson havg receivd a Comn in Colo. Gages Regt makes a vacancy here, which with your approbation will be filld by Mr Denis McCarty who you once appointed a Captn7 he has continued a Volunteer ever since & has recruited several men into the Serviceand I hope your honourwill allow me the liberty, as you once promisd me, of filling up the vacancys as they happen with the Volunteers that serve with that expectation: we have several with us that seem to be very deservg young Gentn I shall observe the strictest justice in promotg them according to their merit and time of entering the Service.8
I have orderd Captn Hog to render immediately a fair acct to the Com[missar]y of the money sent himhe was orderd to lay in Provn for only 12 Mo.9
Captn Stewart has recruited his Comp[lemen]t of MenI shoud be glad to know whether he is to compleat his Horse agt the spring & provide accoutrements.
I have been obligd to suspend Ensign Dekeysar for Misbehaviour till your pleasure is knownsee the proceedgs of the enquirg Court.10 his Character in many other respects ha[s] been infamousI have also been obligd to threaten in your
[280]
name the new appointed Officers with the same Fate if they are not more diligent in Rec[ruitin]g their Companys as each recd his Comn upon those terms.
Captn Mercer comes down for more money & to satisfie how the 10,000 has been applied.11
The Skipper of the Vessel has embezzled some of the Stores, but for want of a particular Invoice of this we cant ascertain the loss. he is kept in confinement till you pleasure is known12 I am Yr Honrs most Ob. H. St

Go: Washington

