

May 9th 1758

May 9th 1758

At a Council of Officers, held at Fort Loudoun, May 9th 1758. Present,


Colo: George Washington, PresidentMembers


Lt Colo. Stephens
Capt. Stewart


Lt Stewart
Lt Campbell


Lt King
Lt Buckner


Lt Hubbard
Lt Thompson


Lt Roy
Ensign Duncanson1


It was considered, whether Colo. Washington ought not to fulfil his Engagements, by defraying the Expences of the officers and other Gentlemen who he has employed in the Recruiting-Service, in consequence of Orders received from the President of Virginia, out of the 4,00 sent up for contingenciesas far as it will go.
1. We considered, that the President had given Orders for Recruiting, to complete this Regiment.
2. That, in consequence of those orders, several Officers were ordered to recruitwho have been, and now are, enlisting men.
3. That many private Gentlemen, who have the Service at heart, upon a promise from Colo. Washington, that they should be repaid what money they should advance in recruiting, have engaged, and enlisted several men.
4. That it is impossible for the recruiting Parties to be immediately stopped from recruiting, as they are in distant, and different places.
5. That, purposely for the service of the Country, and to oblige the Recruiting officers, several Musters are appointed, at which those Gentlemen who have recruited, promised to deliver
[171]
their Recruits to certain officers who have engaged to attend; whose characters may suffer if they do not; as they will appear to have acted, not only without Orders, but with a great deal of Levity.
6. That, as there was no money here for the Officers who are RecruitingColo. Washington gave them orders to draw upon him for what they should expend, or engage to give the men whom they should recruit. He is therefore, absolutely liable to them for it.
7. That, as the Colonel is obliged, out of his private Estate to comply with his Engagementsand as he hath staked his credit to forward the Service of his Countryand in obedience to the Presidents Orders: It would be the greatest hardship in the world on him to suffer for it.
8. That, not only the Credit of this Regiment would suffer, if the money that shall be expended in the Service is not paid speedily, but the credit of the Country also.
For these ReasonsIt is the unanimous opinion of this Council, that the 4,00 ought to be applied in discharging the Expences of the Recruiting parties; and that application be made for more money for the same purpose.
