



Sir
[Williamsburg] Septr 24th 1757



Yours of the 17th  Jenkins I recdIve wrote Colo. Read about the Lunenburg Draughts. Im sorry to see the List of so many Deserters & Im fully of Opinion that those that recd the Bounty, Cloaths & Arms ought to be outlawd & the Desertion of the Person that was condemnd & afterwards pardond appears to me so villanous that I cant prescribe any Rule to keep em together, but gt Severities, & to employ em in the most laborious Work with Guard oer emThe Reason I wanted so earnestly the Return of our Men, was chiefly to know the No. of Men wth Yo. to enable Me to contract for their Provisions, as there must be one at Winchester & another in Augusta, let me know the No. to be supplid with Provisions immediately from WinchesterI did not expect but wishd yr Compys cd be compleated to 100 each; at the Court I shall consult with the Councell in regard to Capt. Gist, & the Paymt of Demands, for the Indns, Mr Rutherford gave in an AccotI dont want to load Yo. wth any troublesome AffairsWhat I wrote was the C[redito]rs to give in the Amo. of their Accots to be sent to the CommitteeI sent up some Drums lately, I beleive there are a few more left that may be sent, when Opportunity offers for the IndnsIm sorry for the repeated bad News from the Branch, & Ive a Petition from thence signd by a gt No. of People,1 & I
[422]
dont know how to assist em further than in the following Manner; the Assembly voted for 300 Rangers, 200 I orderd to be raisd for the Frontrs of Augta 100 more I shall be glad if can be raisd & properly officerd for yr Frontrs, which I desire may be done,2 & if Capt. Hogg is up yr Way I shall be glad to give him the Command of em, & keep em in Parties to range the WoodsAs to Mr Kennedys return of the Provisions left at ft Cumberland, I desire Yo. may settle that Affair wth Mr Ross in the best Manner Yo. can As the Fish was left there I think Yo. cant charge em wth it as its but a Trifle. The Mony Yo. recd from the Pay-master & 68.13.8 pd Yo. by Colo. G:W: Fairfax, carry to the Cr[edit] of the Country in your Accot of Incidents &ca. As Im afraid we shall never see Capt. Spotswood again Yo. may appoint Lieutt John Mcneal to his Compy with Provison if he returns he may be replacd, tho I see no Probability of it, & inclosd Yo. have Como. for Mr Henry Fairfax to be Lieutt in the Regimt, to please Yo. I have ordd it to be filld up here, but I can see no Difference if Yo. had done it by my OrderIm surprised at Colo. Stanwixs Silence, I wrote him some Time since, but have had no Answer.3 I spoke to Mr Rutherford to send a particular Accot of the Provisions on hand,4 & I desire Yo. to consult wth him how long it may be suffict for maintaining your MenYr other Letter of the 17th I perusd, I wod gladly hope there is no Truth in it, I never Heard of it before, or did I ever conceive Yod have sent down any Alarms witht proper Foundation, however I shall shew it to Colo. Corbin when he comes to Town, but Id advise Yo. not to give Credit to evry idle Story Yo. hear, for if I was to notice Reports of difft kinds I sd be constantly perplexdMy Conduct to Yo. from the Begining was always Friendly, but Yo. know I had gt Reason to suspect Yo. of Ingratitude, which Im convincd your own Conscience & reflection must allow I had Reason to be angry, but this I endeavour to forget, but I cant think Colo. Corbin guilty of wt is reportedHowever as Ive his Majestys Leave to go for England I propose leaving this in Novr & I wish my Successor may shew Yo. as much Friendship as Ive done. I wish Yo. Health & Happiness & am Sr Yr m. h. S.
