



Sir
Williamsburg July 18th 1757



Your two Letters of 10th & 11th I recd by Jenkins & observe their ContentsI wrote You the 13th which sent up by Serjt FentThere will soon be Publicats. for any Persons inclineable to contract for Provisions for the Forces at Winchester, & those in Augusta; they are to give in their Proposals in Writing, & by this Method I hope they will be properly supplied.1
The Money remaining of the 2000 for Drafts may be applied to Contingt Charges, the Accounts to be kept seperate2And this Day have signd a Warrant for 1500 more for paymt of Arrears due on Provisions, which the Treasurer is to deliver to Mr Walkerthat I expect will be sufficient to pay all Arrearages. I do not understand the Demands of the People for Inds. an Acct of them shd be sent down here. Jenkins has recd 31.3.3 for the two Receipts for Skins for the Inds.& You are to continue Jenkins in Pay he giving close attendance.
I sent You by Fent 16 blank Coms. which I doubt not You will fill up carefully & to those of most Merit & Spirit.3 Our Printg Office is so much engagd in printing the Paper Money, that I coud not get the Mutiny & Desertion Act in Print, but You have a Copy of it atested by the Clerk of the Assembly. The former Como. for holding Genl Court Martials woud have done; but in Case of its being mislaid I send You a new one; & six blank Warrants to be made use of as occasion may require.4
Its too premature to appoint Ct. McNeill in the room of Ct. Spotswood, as I hope we shall have some good Acct of him. You are to allow the two Officers to resign on their Application, appointg as good Men in their roomWhen You have formd Yr
[312]
Compas. send me a Muster Roll of each Company seperate with the Names of each private Man, Serjt Corporal & Drums, signd by the Capts. & Subalterns.5 The Detachmt intended for Augusta will be supplied with Provisions from Colo. Clemt Read, County Lieut. of Lunenburg, who will order them to the Place the Forces may be destind to.6
I am uneasy on reading the List of the many Deserters from the Drafts, I shall advise & publish Advertisemts for apprehending them if possible, tho they are too much countenancd & protected to the Shame of the Country.7
Colo. Stanwixs Account I have perused, & must observe thereon, that Your Allowance is much more than there specified; & as the Officers have very great Pay, I adhere to my former Regulations as to Bat Men, & that they appear in Rank & File;8 You well know the Country has always paid the Waggons, & Colo. Stephen employd no less than nine Waggons to his two CompaniesThe Rations mentiond by Colo. Stanwix I conceive is in lieu of Provisions, but if the Officers are supplied with Provisions these Rations are out of the Question.
The Informatn of Jno. Street I hope is sent Co. Stanwix; I cannot believe the Acct of 700 French Men from the Lakes to Fort DuQuesne, as its natural to think they will collect all the Force they can to form a strong Body to the No[rth]wd against Lord Loudoun, but however its necessary to be greatly on Your guard & look out.9 I shall be very glad to have a specifick Acct of the number of Drafts, those that were paid the Bounty Money & had their Regimentals before they deserted10As I wrote You in my last about the Provisions left at Fort Cumberland, You must settle it in the best manner You can.
I hope I have ommitted nothing essential, indeed I am not in Health for writing long Letters. I wish You Health & am Sir Your humble Servant

Robt Dinwiddie

