



Dear Sir
Annapolis 11th of Apl 1771.



I do very cordially sympathize with Mrs Washington in the uneasiness I can easily suppose She must necessarily be under during this State of Suspence. Her Son was, last Monday Evning, innoculated in Baltimore: and tho there really be in his Favour Every Thing that could be wishd for, yet, I know She will be anxious & impatient till it be over. All I can do to ensure Success She may depend on: & I can with Truth declare, that, at present, there is but a bare Possibility of his having it unfavourable. In Truth, They make so very light of it in Baltimore, that one is almost ashamed even to mention a Suspicion of a Possibility of Failure. We went up on the Monday; & for Fear of his possibly catching it in the natural Way, I had Him innoculated immediately; more especially as He was very eager for it, & in high Spirits. The Pill He took that Night made Him a little sick; & Joe complaind that His purged Him very unmercifully. I left Him yesterday at the Doctors, where every Thing seemd agreeable to Him; I purpose being with Him again on the Monday, as his Fever will likely be a coming on, on the Tuesday or Wednesday & Eruption on Thursday: all which Time I will be there. The Doctor promisd to write to You as You requested. And should any Occasion arise, You may depend
[444]
on hearing from Me, evn by Express: So that, if You do not hear from Me, to the Contrary, Mrs Washington may rest assurd All is wellas I give You my Word & Honour, that, if there be but ever so distant an Appearance of any Thing unfavourable, I will not fail to communicate it to You immediately.1 There is a young Gentleman there (& but One, tho more are daily expected) from Northampton County, of the Name of Savage; a modest, well-behavd Man, & I believe the Clerk of a County there. He promised to be a Companion to Jack, & I dare say will be an acceptable one.2
If any Thing shoud be the Matter with His mutilated, They are to send Express to Me; & if They do, I shall have an Oppty of letting You know of it by the Postif I do not, conclude All is well. Shoud I not write, mutilated Week from Baltimore, which yet I intend to do, be not uneasy. This will be brought to You by Mr Templeman, & being written in a Hurry in a crowded Store, must I fear be confused.3 All I am & wish is to make You & Mrs Washington easy; & I hope You will be so, in Confidence that if there really were any Appearance of Danger, I woud not, from a mistaken Tenderness, Conceal it from You.
I beg my afft. Compts (as Jack also did) to his Mamma, Sister, yrself & Mr Washington, & am, very truly Yr most obedt Hble Servt

Jonan Boucher

