



Dear Sir
Alexandria 21st July 1758



Your intelligence of the 12th came regularly to handin which no circumstance equals the agreable account of your good health1the only blessing necessary for Lifebut more especially, to promote Spirit & pleasure in the Toils of a Campaigne.
The invariable attention, indefatiguably pursued by the Pensilvanians, without regard to the common interest, for advancing their private fortuneshave long been glaring proofs, of a Selfish & Sordid principlewhich will ever prevail to obstruct the Generous attempts of their associates for Liberty and property2and this instance of the partiality paid them by Signior St Clr the Bashawis certainly owing to the influence of that meanesswrought upon his Foible by some fellow of addressbut Quere,how far the Bashaws penitration can carry him to distinguish in Matters of such importancewhere prejudice
[315]
or rather pride in the first placeattended wt. the love of powerpassionand Self SufficiencyConspire to put him into MotionWe must undoubtedly expect nothing but irregularities & inconsistancies, from Such a Contrasted Character.3
We who view the actions of high life at so vast a distance, can only form conjecturesagreable to the small extent of our knowledge& ignorant of the comprehensive Schemes intendedmistake plaguily in Judging by the piecePerhaps the Pensilvanianshad pland Some grand affairto be perfected a Century henceby cuting a Road from Rays Townhowever, all Jesting apartthis delay and triffling of time is a Lamentable matterWe had accounts last Post of the armys landing & incamping at Louisburgand expect by this time they have reduced ithowever, You have the news more particularly & readier at Fort Cumbd then wetherefore I need not repeat them.4
Your Regiments attachmt and Spirit to the Service, shews itself, not only in Change of Dress5adapted to the Servicebut in every Steddy purpose for the publick Goodthat motives of patriotism and principles of true Honour, can inspireas they have always been the Spring of Your Actionsmay they produce their due reward for the toils that accompany themA Glorious & peacefull retirement to the pleasures of Private Life.
To tell you our Domestick occurrances woud look silly& ill sute your time to peruseWe have dull Barbecuesand yet Duller DancesAn Election causes a Hubub for a Week or so& then we are dead a WhileYesterday Geo: Mason & Geo: Johnston were Chosen for FairfaxFrancis Lee & James Hamilton for Loudoun6Other Matters are not worth noticeto speake of Tobacco to You is Still more impertinenttho it is Tobacco in reality this Summer& exceeds the highest prices for Many Years30/ Curry has absolutely been given & 25/ is frequentwhoever consigns Tobacco surely must be Enemys to their own interest.
Your friends Salute You wt. the greatest Respect& Unite their Wishes with me, for Your Health & Happy SuccessI am Dear Colo. Your Most Affect. Servt

Jno. Kirkpatrick

[316]

P.S. Im astonishd Doctr Craik does not writeI fancy his hands are full.

