



Dear Sir.
Falmouth 25th August 1756.



Thus far from Williamsburg and pritty much fatiguedOn friday evening had the pleasure of receiving yours, and agreable to your desire copied the Governors, Deliverd it, and woud have Shown it to the Speaker had he not left the Town that fore noon1The Governor at that time told me (tho I
[376]
imagine he has since wrote you) that he had no Objections of any kind to your Attendence at Alexandria, & that he coud wish The Cherokee & Cataubas, who are on their way to You, were Arrived before you left Winchestr, as there is Some Ceremony in the Reception of Such ChapsAs to other particulars Youll be better informd from the Governors & Speakers Lettersvizt the Deductions from the Soldiers being discontinuedthe Settlement of Referrd AccotsThe Office of Muster Master to be distinct from the PaymasterThe increase of Doctr Craiks pay& promise of Support in Medicines, so as he shall be no looserThe fitting & preparing a house wt. necessarys for the SickReasonable allowance at all ferrys, & a promise of Supporting You Genteelly in every Expence you may be induced to in the Service&c. &c. with other things that I cant inform you of.2
You woud learn by Capt. Cox that All your Accots were passd & approved, & that transcribing the whole transactions woud detain me 2 or 3 days after himThe Speaker gave me the Cash on Friday, Composed of Large Bills as usuall, his Appology he has no Doubt wrote you, on Saturday the Governor went to York, I finishd the Accots that Afternoon, left them wt. Mr Palmer& next Morning waited On the Govr for his Dispatches to youwc. Consists of 2 lettersthat Morning Mr Boyd was to Settle an Accot wt. his Honr3 wc. had been delayd by the Govr from day to day, & after all woud have Nothing to say in it, tho he had entertaind Mr Boyd wt. promises of Settling it, till at last referrd him to the Committee after they had Disolved for three days.
Out of the 5000, I have Disbursed these Sums following, I hope not Disagreable to youVizt


To Mr Boyd Paymaster
215.13.


To Mr Chas Dick his Acct  Recet4
275.13.


To Finnie, Qualess premium5
5.


To J. Kirkpatrick, in part of pay
43.14.






540


Cash  Mr Boyd
335 Sheets a 12.

4020.




117 Sheets a 3.15






& Loose Bills 25s
440




in all


4460






5000


[377]
Lt Walter Stewart Sent me the inclosed List of Workers on the Roads, thro mistake I fancy6There is nothing of news to inform You, I inclose the GazetteA Barren pieceEverybody is in Suspense about Minorca, So uncertain are all accountstho wishing for Confirmation to Capt. Browns.7
Mr Boyd Sets out to day for Winchester, and I, under favour of your kind indulgence Bend towards Alexandria, where a few days recess, I hope will Serve my purpose& then make my best Dispatch to Attend youI send a Lock for the Little Boxbetter than the formerPlease acquaint Capt. Mercer I brout up his horse from Capt. Dansiesin good Order & Sent him to his Fathers  his Brother James8I Am wt. unfeignd Esteeme Dr Sir Your Most Obedient & Much Obligd Hum. servt

Jno. Kirkpatrick


To Receive from Mr Boydvizt The LegerThe Receipt booka Bundle of Accots Recets & Capt. Hogs papers4 letters for Yourself2 qrs. Gilt paper, for Capt. Stewart.

