



Head Quarters, Cambridge, Jany 24th 1776



Parole [      ].
Countersign [      ].1


The Barracks are to be finished as speedily as possible, that the Militia Regiments, which are expected may be accomodatedThe Quarter Master General and his Assistants, are to look out in time, for other quarters, if the Barracks are thought insufficient to entertain the troopsThe Regiments are to be brigaded in the following mannerviz:


Brigdr Genl Thomass Brigade.
B: Genl Heaths Brigade.
B: Genl Spencers Brigade.


Learnerds
Prescotts
Parsons


Jos: Reeds
Sergeants
Huntingtons


Whitcombs
Phinneys
Webbs &


Wards &
Greatons &
Wyllys Regts


Baileys Regts
Baldwins Regts
 . . . .


B: Genl Sullivans Brigade.
B: Genl Greens Brigade.
B: Genl 2 Brigade.


James Reeds
Varnums
Glovers


Nixons
Hitchcocks
Pattersons


Starks & Poors Regts
Littles & Bonds Regts
Arnolds & Hutchinsons Regts


Whitcombs, Webbs and Huchinsons Regiments, are to join their respective Brigades, as soon as provision is made for it; at
[177]
any rate before the first of February; that they may get fixed before the Militia come in.3 The Brigadier and Q: Mr General is to see that each Brigade, is as compactly quartered as the Barracks will admit of; The Barrack Master is to see that each room has its Compliment of men, and the Officers placed contigious to them.
The Custom of maning the Lines and each regiment repairing to its alarm-post at Revellie beating is to be strictly and invariably practiced, until countermandedThe Brigadiers are to take especial care, that proper alarm posts are assignd, to every Regiment, that no confusion may arise upon an alarm.
Neither Provisions, nor the Value of them, are to be issued to Officers, or Soldiers when upon FurloughFurloughs are always considerd as injurious to the service, but too often granted for the gratification of IndividualsThe General was therefore not a little surprised to find, that it had contrary to custom, and common Justice, become a question, whether absentees, were not entitled to the same allowance of provisions, as if they were present and actually doing duty.
