



Head Quarters, New-York, April 16th 1776.



Parole New-Hampshire.
Countersign Falmouth.


If the British Troops which evacuated Boston, or any part of them, are destined for this place, their Arrival may be very soon expectedThe Engineers and Overseers of the works, are therefore to use every possible dispatch in compleating themTo this end, the Engineers are to apply to the Adjutant General, for as many Men as can usefully be employed, and he will give orders accordingly.
Col. Prescots Regiment is to encamp on Governors-Island, as soon as the weather clears, they are to give every assistance in
[74]
their power, to facilitate the works erecting thereonThe Qr Mr General will furnish Straw for the Tents, and Firewood.
As some Inconvenience have arisen to the Citizens of this place, by having the Countersign demanded of them, so early as Nine-OClockThe General orders that Taptoo-beating be delayed for the future til Ten, flattering himself (as there is no distinguishing Citizens from Soldiers, nor no other possible method of keeping the latter to their quarters, and of consequence, from rioting and disorderly behaviour) that it will be found less Inconvenient to the Inhabitants (to say nothing of the security which is to be derived from it) to give the Countersign at that hour, than submit to the greater Inconveniencies, which may arise out of the neglect of it. After this Hour, it is strictly enjoined upon the Officers to see that their Rolls are called and that the Men are in quarters.
General Thompson will hasten the embarkation of the regiments for Albany, as fast as possible, and is to fix with the Muster Master General Mr Moylan, upon a time and place for mustering of themThese Regiments may be embarkd and sent off one at a time, or otherwise as it can be done quickestThe General to set out with the lastThe Colonels to prepare their Muster-Rolls immediately.
All Persons having business with the Adjutant General, are to repair to his own Office, and not to Head Quarters to transact it.
The General Court Martial of which Col. Stark was President is dissolved.
A General Court Martial to sit to morrow Morning, at Mr Francess Tavern, at ten OclockAll Evidences and Persons concernd, to attend the court.1
