



Dear General
New York Tuesday past 12 at Night[21 May 1776]



Capt. Wm Goforth arrived here about an hour since with the enclosed lettersExpress from Canada, which I mean to forward on to Amboy very early in the morning, and beg your Excellencys particular answer in regard to what you would have forwarded from this place1Capt. Goforth commanded the Schooner in the River St Lawrencehe saysthat not more than 100 Men are taken prisoners & them all sickthe Frigate gave him chasehe crouded all Sail possible but found it in vain, he then quitted wt. his Crew, save a Son of Colo. McDougalls & one more who were so obstinate they would not leave the Vessel
[359]
& were taken Prisoners2he further says that he did not see a single Man land from the Ships that came upnor does he believe the Enemy sallied out on our Troopsof this he is confident, that not a Gun was fired but between the Frigate and himself. the Troops from the Island of OrleansPoint Levy& all out Guards had got safe off, and joind Genl Thomas.
Misfortune on misfortuneA Vessel from France arrived yesterday on the back of Long-Island & came to Anchor, loaded with 12 Tonns powder500 Small Arms & dry Goodsthe English Capt. with a Boats Crew came on shore for Assistance to land his Goodssoon after the French Capt. who was on Boardsaw a small Sloop to Leward beating up to him, tis supposed he thot them friendshe immediately weighd anchor and bore down for them, when unluckily it provd to be one of the Asias tenderswho took and carried her into the HookI have seen the Capt.he was ownd by Mr Brown of Providenceshe was seen comeing into the Hook this morning in Company with the Tender, that there can be no doubt of the truth of it.3
The Committee this Evening applyed to me to let the armd Petty-Auger Cruise of the back of the Island to protect a number of Vessels which are hourly expected in with Arms & Ammunition. she is a very Swift Sailor and draws but little water and probably may be of great service to us in this waythis Request I shall comply with unless otherways ordered by your Excellency. I have the Honor to be Your Excellencys Most Obedient & Very Hume servt

Israel Putnam

