



To the Honourable Robert Dinwiddie. Governour of Virginia.Honourable Sir,
[Winchester, 18 April 1756]



It gave me infinite concern to find in yours by Governour Innis, that any representations should inflame the Assembly against the Virginia Regiment; or give cause to suspect the morality and good Behaviour of the Officers.1 How far any of the individuals may have deserved such invidious reflections, I will not take upon me to determine; but this I am certain of; and can call my conscience, and what I suppose will still be a more demonstrable proof in the eyes of the World, my orders to witness
[14]
how much I have, both by Threats and persuasive means, endeavoured to discountenance Gaming, drinking, swearing, and irregularities of every other kind. While I have, on the other hand, practised every artifice to inspire a laudable emulation in the Officers for the Service of their Country; and to encourage the Soldiers in the unerring exercise of their DutyHow far I have failed in this desirable end, I can not pretend to sayBut it is nevertheless a point which does in my opinion merit some scrutiny, before it meets with a final condemnation. Yet I will not undertake to vouch for the conduct of many of the Officers: as I know there are some who have the seeds of idleness very strongly ingrafted in their natures: and I also know, that the unhappy difference about the command, which has kept me from Fort Cumberland; has consequently prevented me from enforcing the Orders, which I never failed to send.2
However, if I continue in the Service, I shall take care to act with a little more rigor, than has hitherto been practised; since I find it so absolutely necessary.
I wrote your Honour in my last how unsuccessfully we attempted to raise the Militia; and that I was reduced to the necessity of waiting here the arrival of an Escort from Fort CumberlandShould this escort arrive before Mr Kirkpatrick does from Williamsburgh (whom I hourly expect) I must yet wait a little longer; he being left with all my accompts and Papers to lay before the Committee: and were I to go up without him, it would put it out of my power to settle with the Recruiting Officers above, in order that I might make a final settlement with the Committee below.3
The Garrison at Fort Cumberland is barely manned: The rest are out on Parties: yet the Indians continue to Hunt the Roads and pick up stragling persons. This your Honour may see by the enclosed from Captain John Mercer;4 who being out with a scouting party of one hundred men I have ordered to search the warm-Spring mountain; where, it is lately reported, that the Indians Rendezvous.5 The Commission your Honor has sent for holding Courts Martial is yet insufficient,6 as it is copied (I suppose too literally) after Governor Inniss;7 who had no power to hold a General Court martial, or to try Commissioned Officers Having none either to hold a Court, or in
[15]
short any to try. But this may be postponed until I come down, which will be in a short time after I arrive at Fort Cumberland. I am your Honors &c.

G:W.
Winchester, April 18th 1756.

