



Dear Sir,
Alexandria 19th June 1757



I share in the anxiety and concern that you must undoubtedly undergo in the present melancholy prospect and very warmly wish a happy issueShoud my service be requisite in any shape at this juncture, I shall be glad to know it, and will immediately obey with the greatest chearfulness in whatever you are pleased to command.
This County sends 120 Men to your asistance,1 tho experience gives but little hopes of the service to be expected from undisciplined MilitiaHow infatuate are our Assemblys! heedless
[238]
to the reports of Danger, and indifferent in their Measures for the General safetyotherwise, the spring woud not have passed idly over without a single step taken to augment your Regiment. The case in short is, we pay more regard to the wellfare of our nighbours, and look upon our own situation as quite securea Benevolent Disposition indeed!
Yesterday Colo. Fairfax gave me a Letter from Captain Mercer of 29th May from Yorkin which he writes me the Method he has taken to reimburse Captain Cockss money as you may observe on the other sidewhich method I am certain wont be agreable to said Cocks.2
I imagine Mr Boyd is sometime since, gone to Williamsbg shoud I not receive your orders to go up before his return, I design to take the pleasure of waiting upon You then.3
The new regulations, to be made in Your Command,4 may probably afford an opportunity of continuing Your kindness and good offices, which I have so offten receivedand for which I shall allways gratefully acknowledge myself Dear Sir Your Most Obedt & much Obliged Hume Servant

Jno. Kirkpatrick




Capt. Cockss 250thus to be Accounted for.


Accots settled with the Committee, (tho not paid).
                  wt.


Yours.  recets

62.9.4


Accots ditto  Capt. Mercer. as 
                     Certificate


inclosed

164.1.5


CashLent by Capt. Mercer to Capt. Cocks.. buying
                  a


Horse

2.


Cash, sent to J.K.  Colo.



Fairfax
Ballce
21.10.3




250.1.5



