



Esteemed Friend
London 14 November 1774



We have now to acknowledge receipt of thy esteemed favors of 30 Decr 30 Apr. 1 June & 4 Augst the Contents whereof are duly noticdWe observe by the second that our friend J. P. Custis is married we congratulate him upon illegiblesion & heartily wish him health & happiness. We are sorry to see by thine of 4 Augst that thou art displeasd at our suffering thy Bill on us to John Page Esqr. to be noted for illegible acceptance tho when it became due it was paidthe reason was we had no advice from thee of its being drawn & could not for our own safety accept it untill we receivd thy letter advising thereof for in case thy name had been counterfeited the loss would have fallen upon us, we therefore hope upon reconsidering the matter thou wilt see it in a more favourable light & not take offence when none was intended.1 thy favour of 1 June inclosed a letter directed to Ireland which we put into the post office & doubt not it arrivd safe2The following Bills drawn by thee upon us on accot of J. P. Custis have appeard since our last & met due honor.


To
G. Fairfax
39.5



M. Cooper
65.



Wm McGrachen
110.




224.53


We are obligd to thee for consigning us 12 hhds Tobo  the Hanbury which we shall dispose of to the best advantage & flatter ourselves shall be able to render pleasing Acct Sales4 We made Insurance thereon agreeable to thy directions (Vizt)


12 hhds @ 8.10s. each is 102 @ 2 prCent is
2.11.


Commission 2 prCent
.10.2


 Policy
.2.6



3.3.8


[186]
which is to the debit of thy account[.] we are sorry to inform thee our old friend Captn Esten died on his passage home 14 days after he left the capes of Virginia5 The present prices of Tobo are from 2 to 3 for exportation & from 9 to 10 for home Consumption as in quality the very finest sorts will produce something more. we send thee herewith a Magazine & newspaper which beg thy acceptance of6 hope this will come to thee in good health & remain with great regard thy assured friends

Signd Hanburys & Lloyd

