



Dr Colo. Washington
Richmond [County]the 29th of Sepr 1755



The Parental feelings I have at the parting with a dutifull Son1 I hope will be some apoligie for my troubling you with this Epistle, his great inclination to go into the Army, and the friends he has got & the favours he has receivd made it quite agreeable to his going But I am afraid as hes young and knowing little of the world or mankind That hel be more lyable to Errors, But D. Sr if I coud but prevail on you To favour him with a look now & then & if you find him inclind to do amiss That you woud spare him one word of advice, and in case of sickness that you woud just see him & give him a word of comfort for fear of his Spirit Failg then I shoud be entirely easie and I am sure that a word from you at those times will do wonders with him.
He now comes up to inform you that he has Tryd Every place where there was the least liklyhood of getting recruits but to little purpose, for the People are deaf to reason perswasion & Even intrest for his friends had got two pistoles to give Every Man besides what he woud give him self in short they are determind not to go till they are forced and wn it comes to that I cant help dreading the Consequence tho I realy beleive that if the Law was put in Exec. that Several woud then take the money freely But they wont beleive there is such a law,2 My son listed at first two pretty young Fellows his Neighbours as recruiting Serjeants & thot it woud be some Encouragmt to others but nothing will do. I realy beleive those two Young Fellows Vizt Wm Stuart Packet & Jno. Sallard3 are deserving Fellows & only Want to be just above the Common Soldiers which I hope they will if yo. think they deserve it, As tis impossible to get his full compliment of Men by recruiting he comes up for your orders but is desireous of Staying to be informd and make himself Perfect in his duty as Leiutenant, and wn The Law is put in Exc. we have in the Neighbourhood Young Men Eno Which he
[66]
is to have DirectlyThere is one favour more I have to beg and then have done, he has a great desire to be under Capt. Henry Woodward4 and if it suites I shoud be highly pleasd.
May the Almighty direct and Enable you to drive those Mercely Savages out of our once happy Country and force them to a Lasting peace that may be to the Glory of God & honour to yr King & Country & Eternal Satisfaction and happiness to yr self, these are & shall be the Sincere prayers of your most hble Servt

Wm Brockenbrough

