



Sir
Mount Vernon August 17th 1767



In my last I gave you an accompt how very seasonable we were at all your plantations but that in the Neck & there last Fryday we had a very great Rain, which was the first since you left home,1 you may judge how much that Field has sufferd as it was much in want of Rain when you left home, but least you shoud form too bad a judgement of it, three of the Cuts I believe will be good the other (5 foot) bad, he has sewd the two Cuts next his house2 in wheat, & begins the 5 foot one this day. tho. mutilated will do very little in it this week as Warder begins to morrow to take away the corn,3 I am very sorry our schooner is from home as I coud get 10. for dilivering it along side of the Ship at Alexandria.
The Carpenters are layg the Barn floor in the Neck they go
[18]
on but slow, the plank being much warpd by laying out so long makes it very troublesome to get the tongues in.
The Brick maker was to be here this day, in order to begin worck but is not yet come he coud not attend sooner as he was obliged to be at Loudon CourtDavis has been very ill but is now so much recoverd as to be at work tho. very weak & lowlast monday & Tuesday he had fits in which he lay so long to all appearance Dead that it was thought he mutilated the Doctor4The Negroes are all wellBishup has sewd half his field in wheat & made two Casks of Cyder his corn has a good colour but the Ears small5Morris is now sewing the 18 Inch cut tho. not half done it, Mat: left him last tuesday, which Backwards him muchI suppose you will think Morris goes on Slow, & so shoud I, if I were not present. I believe he will make a great Crop of Corn.6
Alton will finish sewing this week, I am sometimes almost tempted to believe he will mak 300 Barrils of corn.7
The Children are very well & were Yesterday at Alexandria Church with Miss Guess who calld & carryd them up in the Charriot,8 let Colo. Fairfax know his family are well & he has a plenty of Rainthis day with us is very Rainy. Am Sir Your most Obedient & Humble Servt

Lund Washington


Catherine cant Spin the Blue Cotten & is now spining some very finethe rest do the work aloted them.9

