



Head Quarters, Cambridge, Novr 15th 1775



Parole Connecticut.
Countersign Brown.


Lieutt Lyon of Major Johnsons Company in the 34th Regt tried at a late General Court Martial whereof Col. Pattersons was president for aiding and countenancing a mutiny in the CampThere being no proof of the Charge; the Court unanimously acquit the prisoner.1
Lieut. Soaper and Ensign Parker, tried at a Genl Court Martial whereof Col. Douglass was president, for striking & abusing Lieuts. Hanshaw & Craig, and keeping Lieut. Craig in the Meeting house Guard, all NightThe Court are of opinion that the prisoners are guilty of a breach of the 46th Article of the Rules and Regulations for the Massachusetts Army, and therefore unanimously adjudge the prisoners to be discharged the Continental Army.2
Lieut. John Bowker tried at a late General Court Martial for divers times leaving the Camp without leave, and for countenancing the Soldiers in disobedience of OrdersThe Court are unanimously of opinion, that the prisoner is guilty of quitting the Camp without leave; but acquitted of the latter part of the Charge therefore only adjudge the prisoner to be mulcted Four Pounds of his pay, to be appropriated as directed by the 51st Article of war and be severly reprimanded by his Colonel at the head of the regiment.3
[378]
Serjt Jonathan Putney, Corporal Harwood, Thomas Rollins, Isaac Larriby, Samuel North and Ebenezer Williams Soldiers of Capt. Hatches Company4 in the late Col. Gerrishs Regiment tried at a late Genl Court Martial, whereof Col. Patterson was President for MutinyThe Court are of Opinion that the Prisoners, Serjt Putney, Corpl Harwood, Rollins, North and Williams are Guilty of the Crime laid to their charge and adjudge the said Serjt to be reduced to the ranks and fined Forty-eight Shillings, to be appropriated as directed by the 51st Article of warThe said Corporal to be reduced to a private and whipped with Thirty-nine LashesThe said Rollins to be whipped with Thirty-nine; The said North with Twenty-five; and the said Williams with Thirtynine Lashes upon their bare backs with a Cat oNine tails.
The Commander in Chief approves all the above Sentences of the several Courts Martial mentiond in this days orders and directs the execution of them accordingly.
